London has five major business districts: the City, Westminster, Canary Wharf, Camden & Islington and Lambeth & Southwark.


The London Stock Exchange is the most international stock exchange and the largest in Europe.

London's largest industry is finance. This includes banks, stock exchanges, investment companies and insurance companies The Bank of England is in the City of London and is the second oldest bank in the world.

London has many professional services such as law and accounting firms.

The British Broadcasting Company (BBC), which has many radio and TV stations, is in London.

Tourism is one of London's biggest industries. London is the most visited city in the world by international tourists with 18.8 million international visitors per year. Within the UK, London is home to the ten most-visited tourist attractions. Tourism employed about 350,000 full-time workers in London in 2003. Tourists spend about £15 billion per year.

A growing number of technology companies are based in London.

London is a major retail centre, and in 2010 had the highest non-food retail sales of any city in the world, with a total spend of around £64.2 billion. The UK's fashion industry, centred on London, contributes tens of billions to the economy.

For the 19th and much of the 20th centuries London was a major manufacturing centre (see Manufacturing in London), with over 1.5 million industrial workers in 1960. Many products were made in London including ships, electronics and cars. Nowadays, most of these manufacturing companies are closed but some drug companies still make medicine in London.

The city has a huge network of transport systems including trains, underground (metro) and five main airports.

The Victorians built many train systems in the mid-19th century (1850s). Their main stations are in London, and the lines go to every part of Great Britain. There were originally five major companies but the five companies became a national rail network in modern times. Their terminals at King's Cross, St. Pancras, Paddington, Waterloo and Charing Cross are still used as terminals. 

There are five airports, though only one is actually in London (London City Airport). The most used airport is Heathrow Airport, although it is actually outside the city. There is the London end of the LondonBirmingham canal, which was important to the industrial 19th century. Really heavy goods can be best transported on water by canal or sea.

The London Underground is a system of electric trains which are in London. It is the oldest underground railway in the world. It started running in 1863 as the "Metropolitan Railway". Later, the system was copied in other cities, for example Paris, New York, Moscow and Madrid. Even though it is called the London Underground, about half of it is above the ground. The "Tube" is the name used for the London Underground, because the tunnels for some the central lines are semi-round tubes running through the ground. The Underground has 274 stations and over 250 miles (402 km) of track. Over one billion passengers used the Underground each year.

With the need for more rail capacity in London, the Elizabeth Line (also known as "Crossrail") opened in May 2022. It is a new railway line running east to west through London, with a branch to Heathrow Airport. It is Europe's biggest construction project, with a £15 billion projected cost.

There is a black taxi system regulated by the Metropolitan Police, and various other private enterprise hire car companies. Efforts are being made to make roads safer for cyclists.

London's biggest tunnel has just been completed to take sewage from the capital to the East where it is processed.

London has a temperate oceanic climate (Köppen climate classification: "Cfb"). It is not usually very hot or cold. It is often cloudy. 

Summers are generally warm, sometimes hot. Winters are generally cool. Spring and autumn are mild.

London has regular, light rain throughout the year. July is the warmest month, with an average temperature at Greenwich of 13.6 °C to 22.8 °C. The coldest month is January, with an average of 2.4 °C to 7.9 °C. The average annual precipitation is fairly low at 583.6 mm, and February is normally the driest month. Drought is sometimes possible, especially during longer heatwaves in summer. Snow is uncommon but usually falls at least once each winter and heavy snow is rarer and does not happen every winter. While snow is uncommon in central London itself, there is more snow in the outer areas; this is because the "urban heat island" the big city generates makes the city about 5 °C warmer than surrounding areas in winter.

Temperature extremes in London range from at Heathrow Airport on 19 July 2022 down to at Northolt on 1 January 1962.

London has twin and sister city agreements with these cities:

London also has a "partnership" agreement with Tokyo, Japan.


Litre

A litre (international spelling) or liter (American spelling) is one of the metric units of volume. It is not a basic SI unit, but it is a supplementary unit.

One litre is the volume of 1000 cubic centimetres, that is a cube of 10 × 10 × 10 centimetres (1000 cm). One litre of water at has the mass of exactly one kilogram. This results from the definition given in 1795, where the gram was defined as the weight of one cubic centimetre of melting ice.

Liters are usually utilized to measure the volume of liquids, this is because the density of liquids can vary a lot. However it can be applied to solids as well, for example 1 liter of Iron is around 7.7 kg. The symbol for litre is l or L. The script letter ℓ is also sometimes used.

For smaller volumes, the decilitre is used: 10 dl = one litre.

For smaller volumes, the centilitre is used: 100 cl = one litre.

For smaller volumes, the millilitre is used: 1000 ml = one litre.

The capital letter "L" is preferred by some people as the small "l" can look like the number one "1".

The metric system was first introduced in France in 1791. That system did not have its own unit of capacity or volume because volume can be measured in cubic metres. In 1793 work to make the metric system compulsory in France was started by the Temporary Commission of Republican Weights and Measures. Due to public demand, the commission said that the cubic metre was too big for everyday use. They said that a new unit based on the old cadil should be used instead. One cadil was to be 0.001 cubic metres. This was equivalent to a cube with sides 10 cm. The "cadil" was also known as the "pinte" or the "litron". The "pinte" had been an old French unit of measure of capacity. In 1795 the definition was revised. The "cadil" was given the name "litre".

In 1795 the kilogram was defined to be exactly one litre of water at 4 °C. In 1799 the kilogram was redefined. The new definition said that the kilogram was the mass of the "kilogram des archives". In 1901 scientists measured the volume of one litre of water at 4 °C very carefully. They found that it occupied about  dm. The BIPM redefined the litre as being "exactly" the volume of one kilogram of water at 4 °C.

In 1960 the SI was introduced. The BIPM changed the definition of the litre back to "one dm". The litre is not part of SI. The BIPM defined the litre as a "Non-SI unit accepted for use with the SI". This was because it is used in many countries. The BIPM said that the litre should not be used for very accurate work.

According to SI rules, the symbol for the litre should be "l". This is because the litre was not named after somebody whose name was "Litre". However the symbol "l" and the number "1" are easily confused. In 1979 the BIPM made an exception for the symbol for the litre. They said that people could use either "L" or "l" as its symbol.

In Europe, milk is sold in one litre cartons. One litre bottle is also a popular package for soft drinks. Most alcoholic drinks are sold as 1/3 litre (0.33 l), litre (0.5 l) or 3/4 litre (0.75 l) bottles.

Lime

Lime is a green fruit, and the tree fruit itself. They are citrus fruits similar to lemons. Citrus fruits like limes are rich in vitamin C. Sailors from Britain were given lemon or lime juice to stop them falling ill with scurvy. This is how they got the nickname "Limey". There are several citrus trees whose fruits are called limes. They include the key lime "Citrus aurantiifolia", the Persian lime, the kaffir lime, and the desert lime "Citrus glauca".

Limes are small, round and bright green. If they stay on the tree for a long time they turn yellow. Then they look like small round lemons.

Lime juice is used in cooking and in drinks. Lime oils are often used in perfumes, used for cleaning, and used for aromatherapy.

Lime tastes acidic and bitter. Lime juice is also made from limes.



