Physiology


Physiology is the study of how living things work. Physiologists can study how organs of an organism work together to make things happen. In human beings, for example, the digestion of food hormones and other chemicals are made by the stomach, liver, and pancreas. Muscle contraction happens because of chemical messages made by nerves of that muscle. By learning how the body functions normally, physiologists and physicians can better understand what happens when organs do not function normally. For example, an understanding of how the thyroid gland functions has helped in treating goitre. Studies of the circulatory system and the nervous system have helped physicians understand and treat such illnesses like heart disease, stroke, and high blood pressure.

The field is usually divided into human physiology, animal physiology, and plant physiology.


Planet

A planet is a large object such as Venus or Earth that orbits a star. Planets are smaller than stars, and they do not make light. 

Jupiter is the biggest planet in the Solar System, while the smallest planet in the Solar System is Mercury.

Planets are shaped like a slightly squashed ball (called a spheroid). Objects that orbit planets are called satellites. A star and everything which orbits it are called a star system. 

There are eight planets in the Solar System. Pluto used to be called a planet, but in August 2006, the International Astronomical Union decided it was a dwarf planet instead. There are four more known dwarf planets in the Solar System, Ceres, Makemake, Eris and Haumea.

The name "planet" is from the Greek word "πλανήτης" ("planetes"), meaning "wanderers", or "things that move". 

Until the 1990s, people only knew the planets in the Solar System. Since then 4,905 extrasolar planets (exoplanets) have been discovered in 3,629 planetary systems (January 2022 data). The count includes 808 multi-planetary systems. Known exoplanets range in size from gas giants about twice as large as Jupiter down to just over the size of the Moon. About 100 of these planets are roughly the size as Earth. Nine of these orbit in the habitable zone of their star.

The planets are made of elements that are very different from the Sun (which is mostly hydrogen). The Sun is mostly made up of hydrogen, with some helium. Its energy comes from converting hydrogen to helium. In contrast, the planets are mostly made up of larger atoms and molecules which "could not have come from the Sun". The materials of planets must have come from another source or sources. Those sources were atoms made in earlier supernovae explosions near the Sun's path as it moved through its part of the Milky Way. The material captured by the Sun's gravity formed the planets. The same thing happened in other planetary systems in the galaxy.

The gas giants are made up of hydrogen gas like the Sun, plus (at their centres) metallic elements like the terrestrial planets.

The planets in the Solar System have names of Greek or Roman gods, except for Earth, because people did not think Earth was a planet in old times. However, Earth is occasionally referred by the name of a Roman god: "Terra". Other languages, for example Chinese, use different names. Moons also have names of gods and people from classical mythology. The names of the moons of Uranus are from the plays written by Shakespeare. 

Here is a list of planets in the Solar System from the closest to the farthest
There are planets, and smaller objects that also go around the Sun. Some examples of smaller objects are asteroids, comets, and trans-Neptunian objects.

There are three types of planets in the Solar System. They are:


Political problems of China

The People's Republic of China claims that the island of Taiwan is part of its territory, but the Republic of China (which was the government that controlled all of China from 1911 to 1949) still claims the land as theirs, and does still control Taiwan.

Many people say the government stops people from having freedom of speech, freedom of religion and other political rights that people in other countries have. China still has one-party rule, and is not a democracy.

The following territories are claimed by China (PRC and/or ROC) and by another country or more.


Unequal treaties were forced onto Asian countries when European imperialism reached Asia. 
The list includes claims from PRC and ROC, as well as unofficial historical claims.
"Note: Japan's and Korea's unequal treaties have been resolved since the end of WWII."



