Like


Like can mean some different things: 

1. We can use to like to say that we find a thing is good: 

2. We can use like for "the same as" or "nearly the same as":

3. We can also use like for "the same way as":

4. In a question, we can use like to ask people to talk about a thing, or to say if they find it good or not:

5. We can also use like as "for example":

6. In British and American English young people, when talking, have recently started using like as an extra word in the middle of sentences. Sometimes they use it to report what someone said, especially when mimicking the way they said it. This should never be used in writing:
As works in the same way as example 2 - comparing two things using either the word "like" or the word "as" is called making a simile ("As big as an elephant"). It may be better to use the word "as" for this to stop confusion with example 1.

Political divisions of China

There are twenty-three provinces, four municipalities, five autonomous regions and two special administrative regions in the People's Republic of China. Provinces are pronounced "Shěng" in Chinese Pinyin. The island of Taiwan is claimed as a province by the People's Republic of China (PRC), but it is not under their control. Taiwan is an island known as Republic of China (Taiwan).

Provinces and autonomous regions are broken into prefectures and sub-provincial cities.

There are 23 provinces in the People's Republic of China.

<nowiki>*</nowiki> The island of Taiwan is claimed as a province by the People's Republic of China (PRC), but it is not under their control. Taiwan is an island known as Republic of China (Taiwan).

There are 4 municipalities in the People's Republic of China. "Municipality" is the common English name for the Chinese "zhíxiáshì", meaning a city directly controlled by the national government.

There are 5 autonomous regions in the People's Republic of China. "Autonomous region" is the common English name for the Chinese "zìzhìqū", meaning an area with greater levels of self-government to accommodate minority groups.

There are 2 special administrative regions in the People's Republic of China. "Special administrative region" is the common English name for the Chinese "tèbié xíngzhèng qū", meaning an area under special administration as a result of treaties that returned former European colonies to Chinese control.

List of fruits

Fruits on this list are defined as the word is used in everyday speech. It does not include vegetables, whatever their origin.

The following items are fruits according to the scientific definition, but are sometimes considered to be vegetables:


Legislature

Legislature is a word that comes from the Latin language, meaning "those who write the laws." A legislature is therefore a group of people who vote for new laws, for example in a state or country.

Each person in the legislature is usually either elected or appointed. The constitution of that state or country usually tells how a legislature is supposed to work.

In many countries, the legislature is called a Parliament, Congress, or National Assembly. Sometimes there are two groups of members in the legislature. This is called a ""bicameral"" legislature. A unicameral legislature has only one group of members.

A country, district, city, or other small area may also have something like a legislature. These are often called councils, and they make smaller laws for their areas. 



