Fishing net


A fishing net is a woven trap usually used to catch fish. They are usually made out of rope. A net is a kind of tool.

Fishing nets are one of the oldest ways of catching fish. They can be made with all kinds of fabric like nylon, cotton, grass, flax, and tree fibers. The oldest known fish nets dates back to 8500 BC in Finland. Native Americans made their nets on the Columbia River from grass, cedar, and spruce root fibers. 

Internet slang

Internet slang is slang words which are used on the internet. Most of these words are new, such as Wiki and blog, which were not used before the internet became popular.

Some old words were given new meanings, such as mail (which now means email). This makes many metaphors on the Internet, such as boot (which otherwise mean a shoe) and link (which otherwise means a joint in a metal chain). Some existing acronyms, such as "AFK" (To mean "Away from keyboard") and "IRL" (To mean "In real life") were used on bulletin board systems before the internet became popular. These are now used on the internet, such as in chat rooms and on instant messenger software. And Lol (laugh out loud)

People have also created some verbs and adjectives to describe things that only happen on the internet:


Shorthand is where a word is written in a shorter way because it is quicker and easier to type. It is also done to fit more text into a limited space.

Internet slang uses many acronyms because they are quicker and easier to type. They are often shorthand for common phrases and idioms, but they can show somebody's emotions and their certainty.

Leet speak (written as: L33T or 1337) is the most common language on MMORPGs because rude words are not stopped by filters. This language is changing all the time because new words are made and used. A lot of the words use numbers instead of letters but some were made because of typing errors which are now done on purpose. Also, some suffixes are used, such as "-age" and "-ness".

Some of the numbers and symbols used instead of letters are in the table below.

Nauru

Nauru, ( ) is a island nation in the South Pacific. Its nearest neighbour is Kiribati, east. Nauru is the smallest island nation, covering just , the smallest republic, and the only republican state without a capital. With 10,670 residents, it is the third least-populated country after Vatican City and Tuvalu.

Nauru is a phosphate rock island, and its main export since 1907 has been phosphate. English and Nauruan are the official languages. The president is David Adeang.

Nauru is a oval-shaped island in the southwestern Pacific Ocean, south of the equator. The island is surrounded by a coral reef, which can be seen during low tide. Because of this, a harbor can not be built. Canals let small boats get to the island. A an area of ground where plants can easily grow wide lies inland from the beach.

Coral cliffs surround Nauru's plateau (highland). The highest point, the Command Ridge, is above sea level. The only fertile areas are on the coastal belt, where coconut palms flourish. The land surrounding Buada Lagoon supports bananas, pineapples, vegetables, pandanus trees, and hardwoods such as the tomano tree.

Nauru was one of three great phosphate rock (bird droppings) islands in the Pacific Ocean (the others were Banaba (Ocean Island) in Kiribati and Makatea in French Polynesia). The phosphate reserves on Nauru are now almost used up. Phosphate mining in the plateau has left a bare area of land of limestone peaks up to high. Mining has stripped and destroyed about 80 per cent of Nauru's land, and has affected the surrounding Exclusive Economic Zone. About 40 per cent of marine life has been killed by mud and phosphate drainage.

There are only about 60 native vascular plant species on the island. Coconut farming, mining, and introduced species have damaged the island's native vegetation. There are no native land mammals, but there are native insects, land crabs, and birds, including the Nauru Reed Warbler. The Polynesian rat, cats, dogs, pigs, and chickens have been introduced to Nauru from ships.

There are only a few fresh water sources on Nauru. Storage tanks collect rainwater, but the islanders usually have to rely on desalination plants at Nauru's Utilities Agency. 

The island's biggest problems are climate change and rising sea levels. Nauru is the seventh most global warming threatened nation due to flooding. At least 80 per cent of the land of Nauru is well elevated, but this area will be uninhabitable until the phosphate mining improvement programme is started

Nauru's climate is hot and very humid year-round because of how close it is to the equator and the ocean. Nauru is hit by monsoon rains between November and February, but does not usually have cyclones. How much rain there is every year is highly variable, and is influenced by the El Niño-Southern Oscillation. There have been many droughts in Nauru because of this. The temperature on Nauru ranges between and during the day, and between and at night.

Nauru is divided into fourteen administrative districts.


Noun

A noun is a kind of word (see part of speech) that is usually the name of something such as a person, place, thing, animal, or idea. In English, nouns can be singular or plural.

Nouns often need a word called an article or (like "the" or "that"). These words usually do not go with other kinds of words like verbs or adverbs. (For example, people do not also describe nouns). In English, there are more nouns than any other kind of word.

Every language in the world has nouns, but they are not always used in the same ways. They also can have different properties in different languages. In some other languages, nouns do not change for singular and plural, and sometimes there is no word for "the".

Examples of nouns: "time, people, way, year, government, day, world, life, work, part, number, house, system, company, end, party, information".

The word noun comes from the Latin "nomen" meaning "name." Words like nouns were described in early days by the Sanskrit grammarian and ancient Greeks like Dionysios Thrax. Also in ancient Tamil like "Peyarchol"

In English sentences, nouns can be used as a subject, object, or complement. They often come after prepositions, as the 'object of preposition'.

Nouns can sometimes describe other nouns (such as a soccer ball). When they do this, they are called modifiers or adjuncts.

There are also verb forms that can be used in the same way as nouns (such as 'I like "running".') These are called "verbals" or "verbal nouns", and include "participles" (which can also be adjectives) and "infinitives".

Nouns are classified into common and proper. Pronouns have commonly been considered a different part of speech from nouns, but in the past some grammars have included them as nouns as do many modern linguists.

Proper nouns (also called proper name) are specific names. Examples of proper nouns are: "London, John, God, October, Mozart, Saturday, Coke, Mr. Brown, Atlantic Ocean." Proper nouns are individual things with names, not general nouns.

Proper nouns begin with an (capital) letter in English and many other languages that use the Roman alphabet. (However, in German, all nouns begin with an upper case letter.) The word "I" is really a pronoun, although it is capitalized in English, like a proper noun.

Some common nouns (see below) can also be used as proper nouns. For example, someone might be named "Tiger Smith" -- even though he is not a tiger or a smith.

Common nouns are general names. Sometimes the same word can be either a common noun or a proper noun, depending on how it is used; for example:

In English and many other languages, nouns have 'number'. But some nouns are only singular (such as "furniture, physics") and others are only plural (such as "clothes, police"). Also, some nouns are countable (for example, "one piece, two pieces") but others are uncountable (for example, we do not say "one furniture, two furnitures").

The plural form of most nouns is created simply by adding the letter(s) -(e)s.


Despite plural forms being written using the letter(s) -(e)s, the pronunciation of the letter(s) will pronounced as /-s/, /-z/, or /-ız/ depending on which type of phoneme, or unique sound, comes before it. These variations of the plural morpheme are called allomorphs.

Some dictionaries list "busses" as an acceptable plural for "bus". Presumably, this is because the plural "buses" looks like it ought to rhyme with the plural of "fuse," which is "fuses." "Buses" is still listed as the preferable plural form. "Busses" is the plural for "buss," a seldom used word for "kiss."

There are several nouns that have irregular plural forms. Plurals formed in this way are sometimes called mutated (or mutating) plurals.

Many of the above irregular plural forms stem from Old English, which had more complex rules for making plural forms.

And, finally, there are nouns that maintain their Latin or Greek form in the plural. 

Nouns are words for things, and since things can be possessed, nouns can also change to show possession in grammar. In English, we usually add an apostrophe and an "s" to nouns to make them "possessive", or sometimes just an apostrophe when there is already an "s" at the end, like this:

Most adjectives become nouns by adding the suffix -ness. Example: Take the adjective 'natural', add 'ness' to get 'naturalness', a noun. To see a list of 100 adjectives used in Basic English, click here.

A noun phrase is a phrase where the head word is a noun. In English, the word order of most noun phrases is that determiners, adjectives, and modifying nouns in respective order must appear before the head word, and relative clauses must appear after the head word.


Nature

The words nature and natural are used for all the things that are normally not made by humans. The word comes from the Latin "natura" meaning "birth". Nature includes many things like weather, organisms, landforms, celestial bodies. Scientists study the way the parts of nature work. Things that have been made by people are said to be man-made or called artifacts.

There are natural sciences that study different parts of nature, for example the science of ecology is about plants and animals as a whole, while biology studies every type of living thing.

From one point of view, humans are a prime example of nature, and are the most widely studied natural inhabitants of the planet earth. Humans interact with each other in their natural environment on a day-to-day basis. Every part of nature everything from the air outside to the dirt on the ground is interdependent. Medicine studies humans in health and sickness. 

From another point of view, humans and nature can be said to be in conflict. People always use natural resources. They cut down trees, mine ores, grow crops and manufacture things from natural material. Fires, cars, and factories make a lot of smoke and harm many places. People who like to leave nature unharmed and those who feel they need to use more of nature often fight about what they should do. In the modern world, with many more people and many big cities, these problems are becoming more serious.

Nature, in the broadest sense, means the physical world as a whole. This is the meaning that physics, the study of nature (etymologically), takes.

A useful definition of "natural" is 


Natural resource

A natural resource is what people can use from the natural environment. Examples of natural resources are air, water, wood, oil, wind energy, natural gas, iron, and coal. 

The dividing line between natural resources and man-made resources is not clear-cut. Hydro-electric energy is not a natural resource because people use turbines and generators to convert the energy of moving water to electric current. Petroleum and ores are natural, but need work to make them into usable refined oil and metals. Atomic energy comes from metallic nuclear fuel, like fissionable uranium and plutonium, but rocks need technical work to make them into these nuclear fuels.

We often say there are two sorts of natural resources: renewable resources and non-renewable resources.


Most natural resources are limited. This means they will eventually run out. A perpetual resource has a never-ending supply. Some examples of effectively perpetual resources include solar energy, tidal energy, and wind energy. They are perpetual in effect, although absolutely they do have a limit. There may be a practical limit to how much can be taken in a given day or year, but that amount can be taken again next day or next year (though not for ever).

Non perpetual resources include fossil fuels such as petroleum, coal, etc. They have a limit of usage, and are running out. Some of the things influencing the supply of resources include whether it is able to be recycled, and whether there are suitable substitutes for the material. Non-renewable resources cannot be recycled. For example, fossil fuels cannot be recycled.

The demand for resources can change with new technology, new needs, and new economics (e.g. changes in cost of the resources). Some material can go completely out of use, if people do not want it any more. Demand of many natural resources is very high, but availability of some, such as precious metals, is very low.

Different places have different natural resources. When people do not have a certain resource they need, they can either replace it with another resource, or trade with another country to get the resource. People have sometimes fought to have them (for example, spices, water, arable farmland, gold, or petroleum).

When people do not have some resources, their quality of life can get lower. So, people protect resources. When they can not get clean water, people may become ill; if there is not enough wood, trees will be cut and the forest will disappear over time (deforestation); if there are not enough fish in a sea, people can die of starvation. Renewable resources include crops, wind, hydroelectric power, fish, and sunlight Many people carefully save their natural resources so that others can use them in future.


Negentropy

Negentropy is reverse entropy. It means things becoming more in order. By 'order' is meant organisation, structure and function: the opposite of randomness or chaos. One example of negentropy is a star system such as the Solar System. Another example is life. 

As a general rule, everything in the universe tends towards entropy. Star systems eventually become dead. All energy has gone, and everything in the system is "at the temperature of the surrounding space". The opposite of entropy is negentropy. It is a temporary condition in which certain things are hotter and more highly organised than the surrounding space. This is the second law of thermodynamics:

Life is considered to be negentropic because it converts things which have some order, such as food, into things with more order, such as cells in the body, tissues, and organs. In doing so, it gives off heat. Another example of negentropic things are societies, or social systems, because they take disorderly things such as communications, and make them more orderly and useful.

North America

North America is a large continent in the Northern and Western Hemispheres of Earth. It is to the east of the Pacific Ocean, the west of the Atlantic Ocean, the south of the Arctic Ocean, and it is the northern part of the Americas. The southernmost part is Central America. It is the third largest continent in the world after Asia and Africa. North America has a population of around 371 million and is the 4th most populous continent in the world. 

North America has three subregions which are the Caribbean, Central America, and North America. Depending on how it is used, "North America" can be used to mean as the continent as a whole to include all 23 countries or as a subregion to mean Canada, Mexico, and the United States only. 

Hundreds of millions of years ago, North America was part of a larger ancient supercontinent named Laurasia. A few million years ago, a new land bridge arose and connected North America to South America. Beringia connected North America to Siberia a few times during ice ages in the past 20,000 years. North America has many warm tropical islands such as the Bahamas. North America is currently north of South America.


Neptune

Neptune is the eighth and farthest planet from the Sun in the Solar System. It is an ice giant. It is the fourth-largest planet in the system. 

Neptune's mass is 17 times Earth's mass and a little bit more than Uranus' mass. Neptune is denser and smaller than Uranus. Because of its greater mass, Neptune's gravity makes its atmosphere smaller and denser.

It was named after the Roman god of the sea, Neptune. Neptune's astronomical symbol is ♆, the trident of the god Neptune.

Neptune's atmosphere is mostly hydrogen and helium. It also contains small amounts of methane which makes the planet appear blue. Neptune's blue color is similar, but slightly darker, than the color of Uranus. Neptune also has the strongest winds of any planet in the Solar System, as high as 2,100 km/h or 1,300 mph.

Urbain Le Verrier and John Couch Adams were the astronomers who discovered Neptune. Neptune was not discovered using a telescope. It was the first planet to be discovered using mathematics. In 1821, astronomers saw that Uranus' orbit was different from what they expected. Another nearby planet's mass was changing Uranus' orbit. They found Neptune was the cause.

"Voyager 2" visited Neptune on 25 August 1989. It was the only spacecraft to visit the planet. Neptune used to have a huge storm known as the "Great Dark Spot". Voyager 2 discovered the spot in 1989. The dark spot was not seen in 1994, but new spots were found since then. It is not known why the dark spot disappeared. Visits by other space probes have been planned.

Neptune has five rings surrounding it. However, that is hard to see from Earth.

Galileo Galilei was the first person who saw Neptune. He saw it on 28 December 1612 and 27 January 1613. His drawings showed points near Jupiter where Neptune is placed. But Galileo was not credited for the discovery. He thought Neptune was a "fixed star" instead of a planet. Because Neptune slowly moved across the sky, Galileo's small telescope was not strong enough to see that Neptune was a planet.

In 1821, Alexis Bouvard published the astronomical tables of the orbit of Uranus. Later observations showed that Uranus was moving in an irregular way in its orbit. Some astronomers thought this was caused by another large body. In 1843, John Couch Adams calculated the orbit of an eighth planet that could possibly affect the orbit of Uranus. He sent his calculations to Sir George Airy, the Astronomer Royal. George Airy asked Adams for an explanation. In 1846, Urbain Le Verrier made his own calculations but also failed to get much attention from French astronomers. Airy saw his calculations and encouraged James Challis to search for the planet. Challis began his search in July 1846. Meanwhile, Le Verrier had convinced Johann Gottfried Galle to search for the planet.

Heinrich d'Arrest, a student at the Berlin Observatory, suggested that a newly drawn map of the sky in the region of Le Verrier's predicted area could be compared with the current sky. This map was needed to look for the change of position of a planet, compared to a fixed star. Neptune was discovered the same night on 23 September 1846. It was found 1° from where Le Verrier had thought it would be. It was about 1.5° from Adams' prediction. Challis later found out that he had seen the planet twice in August. He did not recognize it at the time because of his careless work approach. Neptune became the first planet to be discovered by mathematical calculations instead of a telescope.

When Neptune was discovered, the French and the British could not agree on who would get credit for the discovery. Later, an international agreement decided that both Le Verrier and Adams deserved credit. However, historians reviewed the topic after the rediscovery in 1998 of the "Neptune papers" (historical documents from the Royal Greenwich Observatory). It had seemingly been stolen by astronomer Olin Eggen for nearly three decades. It was only found again (in his ownership) shortly after his death. After looking at the documents, some historians now think that Adams does not deserve equal credit with Le Verrier.

Shortly after its discovery, Neptune was temporarily called "the planet exterior to Uranus" or "Le Verrier's planet". The first suggestion for a name came from Galle. He proposed the name "Janus". In England, Challis suggested the name "Oceanus". In France, Arago suggested that the new planet be called "Leverrier", but a lot of people outside France disagreed with this. French almanacs quickly reintroduced the name "Herschel" for "Uranus" and "Leverrier" for the new planet.

Meanwhile, Adams suggested changing the name "Georgian" to "Uranus", while Le Verrier (through the Board of Longitude) suggested "Neptune" for the new planet. Struve supported the name "Neptune" on 29 December 1846, to the Saint Petersburg Academy of Sciences. Soon "Neptune" was internationally agreed among many people. It was the official name for the new planet. In Roman mythology, Neptune was the god of the sea, identified with the Greek god, Poseidon. Neptune's astrological symbol is Neptune's trident (♆).

Neptune's mass is between that of the Earth and the largest gas giants.

Neptune is the fourth largest planet in the Solar System and the third most massive. Neptune is 17 times the mass of Earth, but just the mass of Jupiter. Neptune is a little bit more massive than Uranus, though Neptune is denser and physically smaller than Uranus. Neptune and Uranus are often considered to be part of a sub-class of a gas giant known as ""ice giants"". They are smaller in size than Jupiter and Saturn, and have differences from them in composition. In the search for extrasolar planets, Neptune has been used as a reference to compare the size and structure of the discovered planet. Some discovered planets that have similar masses like Neptune are often called "Neptunes".

The atmosphere of Neptune is made up mostly of hydrogen, with a smaller amount of helium. A tiny amount of methane was also detected in the atmosphere. The methane gives Neptune its blue color. The color of Neptune is similar, but slightly darker, than the color of Uranus.

Because of Neptune's far distance from the Sun, it gets very little heat. The average surface temperature on Neptune is about −201°C (−331 °F; 72 K). Therefore, at its surface Neptune is the coldest planet in the Solar System. 

But in the depths of the planet, the temperature rises. The source of this heating is unclear. Neptune is the farthest planet from the Sun, yet its internal energy is strong enough to create the fastest winds seen in the Solar System, at . Several possible explanations have been suggested. Firstly, radiogenic heating from the planet's core. Among the explanations is the continued radiation into space of leftover heat made by infalling matter during the planet's birth. Another explanation is gravity waves breaking above the tropopause. It has also been suggested that the friction and ram pressure of the diamond hail heats up the planet.

The structure inside Neptune is thought to be similar to the structure inside Uranus. There is likely to be a core, thought to be about 1.5 Earth masses. It is made up of molten rock and metal surrounded by rock, water, ammonia, and methane. This mixture is referred to as icy. It is called a water-ammonia ocean. More mixtures of methane, ammonia, and water are found in the lower areas of the atmosphere. 

At a depth of 7,000 km of Neptune, the conditions may be such that methane decomposes into diamond crystals. These diamond crystals look like hailstones.

One difference between Neptune and Uranus is the level of its meteorological activity. When the Voyager spacecraft flew by Uranus in 1986, the winds on that planet were observed not so strong as on Neptune. When Voyager flew by Neptune in 1989, powerful weather events were observed. The weather of Neptune has very active storms. Its atmosphere has the highest wind speeds in the Solar System. It may be powered by internal heat flow. Regular winds in the equatorial region have speeds of around 1,200 km/h (750 mph). Winds in storm systems can reach up to 2,100 km/h, near-supersonic speeds.

In 1989, the Great Dark Spot, an anticyclonic storm system, was discovered by NASA's "Voyager 2" spacecraft. On 2 November 1994, the Hubble Space Telescope did not see the Great Dark Spot on the planet. Instead, a new storm similar to the Great Dark Spot was found in the planet's northern hemisphere. The reason why the Great Dark Spot has disappeared is unknown. The Scooter is another storm, a white cloud group farther south than the Great Dark Spot. Its nickname was given when first noticed in the months leading up to the "Voyager" encounter in 1989. It moved faster than the Great Dark Spot. Later images showed clouds that moved even faster than Scooter. The Wizard's Eye/"Dark Spot 2" is another southern cyclonic storm, the second strongest storm seen during the 1989 encounter. It originally was completely dark, but as "Voyager" came closer to the planet, a bright core developed.

In August 2023, the clouds vanished. The possible reason is solar flare. 30 years of Neptune' weather observations by Hubble Space Telescope showed that cloud activity is related to solar cycles. 

Neptune also has similarities with Uranus in its magnetosphere. However, Uranus' magnetosphere is weaker than Neptune's magnetosphere. The magnetic field is strongly tilted compared to its rotational axis at 47°. It is offset at least 0.55 radii (about 13,500 kilometres, bigger than the Earth's diameter, for scale) from the planet's physical center. The unusual course may be caused by flows in the interior of the planet.

Neptune has a similar axial tilt to Earth, so it will have seasons. Seasons last about 40 years. 

There are five rings around the planet. They are not as well known as the rings of Saturn. The rings were discovered by a team led by American scientist Edward Guinan in 1968. Then, in the mid-1980s astronomers thought that the rings might not be complete. Stellar occultations were found that rarely showed an extra "blink" just before or after the planet moved in front of the star. However, "Voyager 2" showed that they were complete. The planetary rings of Neptune have a weird "clumpy" arrangement. Scientists think that it may be because of the gravitational contact with small moons that orbit near them. Pictures showed that the ring system had several faint rings. The farthest ring, Adams, has five arcs now named "Courage", "Liberté", "Egalité 1", "Egalité 2" and "Fraternité" (Courage, Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity).

Arcs are a puzzle. The laws of motion predict that arcs spread out into one ring in a very short time. But the arcs in Neptune's rings did not. A moon's gravity may have created the arcs. Galatea is a moon just inside the Adams ring.

In 2005, scientists figured out that Neptune's rings were more unstable than previously believed. The "Liberté" arc may disappear in roughly less than 100 years.

Neptune has 16 known moons. As Neptune was the Roman god of the sea, the planet's moons were named after lesser sea gods or goddesses.

The largest moon of Neptune is Triton. Triton was discovered on October 10, 1846, by British astronomer William Lassell. Unlike all other large planetary moons, Triton orbits in the other direction to the other moons. This shows the moon was probably captured. It is close enough to Neptune to be locked into a synchronous orbit. It is also slowly moving into Neptune and may one day be torn apart when it passes the Roche limit. Triton is the coldest object that has been measured in the Solar System, with temperatures of −235 °C (38 K, −392 °F).

Neptune's second known moon (by order of discovery), the odd moon Nereid, has one of the most unusual orbits of any satellite in the Solar System. Nereid is so far from Neptune that it requires 360 Earth days to make one orbit. It causes the largest elliptical orbit and the largest deviation from a circular path.

Some of these moons have been speculated to have been possible Kupier Belt objects, which in turn became a part of Neptune's Orbit.

From July to September 1989, "Voyager 2" discovered six new moons of Neptune. Of these, Proteus is the second most massive Neptunian moon. It has only one quarter of 1% of the mass of Triton. Neptune's closest four moons, Naiad, Thalassa, Despina, and Galatea, orbit close enough to be inside Neptune's rings. The next farthest out, Larissa was discovered in 1981 when it had covered up light from a star. The moon was credited for causing Neptune's ring arcs when "Voyager 2" observed Neptune in 1989. Five new unusual moons discovered between 2002 and 2003 were announced in 2004. The latest moon, Hippocamp, was discovered from examining Hubble Telescope images on 16 July 2013.

Neptune can not be seen by just looking at the sky with the naked eye. To see it, a telescope or binoculars is needed. This is because Neptune has a normal brightness between magnitudes +7.7 and +8.0. It can be out-shined by Jupiter's Galilean moons, the dwarf planet Ceres, and the asteroids 4 Vesta, 2 Pallas, 7 Iris, 3 Juno and 6 Hebe. A telescope or strong binoculars show Neptune as a small blue dot that looks similar to Uranus. The blue color comes from the methane in its atmosphere. Its small size in the night sky has made it difficult to study visually. Most telescopic data was quite limited until the arrival of the Hubble Space Telescope and large ground-based telescopes with adaptive optics.

The average distance between Neptune and the Sun is about 4.5 billion km. Therefore, Neptune completes its orbit once every 164 years. On 12 July 2011, Neptune completed its first orbit since its discovery in 1846.

Currently, only one spacecraft has visited Neptune. NASA's "Voyager 2" probe made a quick flyby of the planet with its closest encounter on 25 August 1989.

One of "Voyager 2"'s important discoveries was its very close fly-by of Triton, where it took pictures of several parts of the moon. The probe also discovered the Great Dark Spot. However, it had now disappeared after the Hubble Space Telescope took pictures of Neptune in 1994. Originally thought to be a large cloud or cyclonic storm system. It was later guessed to be a hole in the visible cloud deck.

The pictures sent back to Earth from "Voyager 2" in 1989 became the basis of a PBS all-night program called "Neptune All Night".



