June


June (Jun.) is the sixth month of the year in the Julian and Gregorian calendars, coming between May and July. It has 30 days. June is named for the Roman goddess Juno, the wife of Jupiter.

June never begins on the same day of the week as any other month, but always ends on the same day of the week as March.

June comes between May and July and is the sixth month of the year in the Gregorian calendar. It is one of four months to have 30 days.

No other month of any year begins on the same day of the week as June; this month and May are the only two months with this property. June ends on the same day of the week as March every year, as each other's last days are 13 weeks (91 days) apart.In common years, June starts on the same day of the week as September and December of the previous year, and in leap years, April and July of the previous year. In common years, June finishes on the same day of the week as September of the previous year, and in leap years, April and December of the previous year.
Every year, June starts on the same day of the week as February of the following year, as each other's first days are exactly 35 weeks (245 days) apart. In years immediately before common years, June starts on the same day of the week as March and November of the following year, and in years immediately before leap years, August of the following year. In years immediately before common years, June finishes on the same day of the week as August and November of the following year, and in years immediately before leap years, May of the following year.

June is one of two months to have a solstice (the other is December, its seasonal equivalent in both hemispheres), and in this month the Tropic of Cancer in the Northern Hemisphere is turned towards the Sun, meaning that June 20 or June 21 is the Northern Summer Solstice and the Southern Winter Solstice. This means that this date would have the most daylight of any day in the Northern hemisphere, and the least in the Southern Hemisphere. There are 24 hours of daylight at the North Pole and 24 hours of darkness at the South Pole.


June 1, 1794: French Revolutionary Wars: The battle of the Glorious First of June is fought, the first naval engagement between Britain and France.

June 2, 1953: Coronation of Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom.

June 3, 1965: The launch of "Gemini 4", the first multi-day space mission by a NASA crew. June 4, 1783: The Montgolfier brothers publicly demonstrate their "montgolfière" (hot air balloon).

June 5, 1837: Houston is incorporated by the Republic of Texas.

June 6, 1844: The Young Men's Christian Association is founded in London.

June 7, 1942: World War II: The Battle of Midway ends in American victory.

June 8, 1949: George Orwell's "Nineteen Eighty-Four" is published.

June 9, 1944: World War II: Tulle massacre

June 10, 2003: The "Spirit" rover is launched for NASA's Mars Exploration mission

June 11, 2010: 2010 FIFA World Cup (first African FIFA)

June 12, 2018: 2018 North Korea-United States Summit

June 13, 1983: "Pioneer 10" becomes the first man-made object to leave the central Solar System

June 25, 1950: Korean War starts.

June 30, 1908: Tunguska event.


July

July (Jul.) is the seventh month of the year in the Gregorian calendar, coming between June and August. It has 31 days. July was named after Julius Caesar. The halfway point of the year is either on July 2 or in the night of July 1-2.

July always begins on the same day of the week as April, and additionally, January in leap years. July does not end on the same day of the week as any other month in common years, but ends on the same day of the week as January in leap years.

In each hemisphere, it is the seasonal equivalent of January in the other hemisphere. In the North, it is summer and in the South it is winter.

In the Northern Hemisphere, July is often the warmest month of the year, and major sporting events and music festivals are held around this time. In the Southern Hemisphere, it is a winter month, with the coldest-recorded temperature having been measured in Antarctica in this month.

July begins on the same day of the week as April every year and on the same day of the week as January in leap years. No other month in common years ends on the same day of the week as July, but July ends on the same day of the week as January in leap years.

In common years, July starts on the same day of the week as October of the previous year, and in leap years, May of the previous year. In common years, July finishes on the same day of the week as February and October of the previous year, and in leap years, May of the previous year. In common years immediately after other common years, July both starts and finishes on the same day of the week as January of the previous year.

In years immediately before common years, July starts on the same day of the week as September and December of the following year, and in years immediately before leap years, June of the following year. In years immediately before common years, July finishes on the same day of the week as April and December of the following year, and in years immediately before leap years, September of the following year.

July's flower is a variety of the water lily. Its birthstone is the ruby. The meaning for the birthstone ruby is contented mind. Astrological signs for July are Cancer (June 21 - July 21) and Leo (July 22 - August 21).

In the old Roman calendar, July was called "Quintilis", meaning "Fifth Month", because, in the old calendar, the year began in March. Augustus later renamed it July in honor of Julius Caesar, whose birthday was in this month. Augustus later also named the following month, August, after himself.



