Saint Lawrence River


The Saint Lawrence River (; Tuscarora: "Kahnawáʼkye"; Mohawk: "Kaniatarowanenneh", meaning "big waterway") is a big river in eastern North America. It flows between the Canadian province of Quebec & Ontario and the American state of New York, and through the major Canadian city of Montreal. It is the third largest river in Canada.

The river drains water from the Great Lakes into the Atlantic Ocean. It is more than three thousand kilometres long. The river meets the Atlantic Ocean in a big "estuary" or bay, the biggest in the world; this is called the Gulf of Saint Lawrence.

The Canadian cities of Kingston, Montreal, Trois-Rivières and Quebec City are on this river. The Saint Lawrence Seaway allows ships to go up the river and through the Great Lakes right into the middle of North America.


Seville

Seville () is a city in the southern parts of Spain. A river called the Guadalquivir River goes through Seville. The city of Seville is the capital of the Spanish autonomous community Andalusia and of the province of Sevilla. People from Seville are called "Sevillanos."

A very old story says that the city was started by the famous hero of Greece, named Hercules. The Romans when they came to Spain gave it the Latin name of Hispalis. Over time this changed to be spelled in English as "Seville". The Muslim Arabs took the city when they invaded the country, and you can still see a lot of the buildings they built during their 800-year stay in Spain (711-1492).

In 1992 Seville was the place for the Expo 92. There is a beautiful bridge across the Guadalquivir River called "Puente del Alamillo". It was thought up by Santiago Calatrava a famous building expert.

Seville is famous for its hot summer weather.


Seville is the home town of two soccer teams, Sevilla FC (often simply called "El Sevilla") and Real Betis Balompié (often called "El Betis").


Salami

Salami is a sausage that first came from Italy. The name comes from the Italian salare meaning to make something salty.

The original salami was made from a mix of chopped pork and salt which was dried using air in a casing. Now there are many types of salamis made in some countries. Nearly all are seasoned with a combination of herbs and spices in addition to salt. Salamis are now sometimes smoked or cooked before air drying. Some kinds are made of beef while others mix beef and pork. Most, if not all Italian salamis have garlic in them, but few German kinds do, for example. Some, like a few salamis from Spain, include paprika or chili. The difference between some types is in how coarse or fine the meat is chopped. Some "light" salami might add turkey or chicken to reduce both fat and calories.

Many salamis are named after the city or region where they come from. Some examples are Arles, Genoese, Hungarian, and Milano salamis.

Special English

Special English is a simple form of the English language. It is used by a public radio station called Voice of America, run by the United States government in Special English programs every day. Its news and feature programs are read more slowly than usual, using fewer English words and simple grammar. 

The contents of Special English programs are much easier to understand. Special English is clearer and simpler, and it uses shorter sentences. It can also help someone whose English is weak to improve their English. In some countries, for example China, Special English is popular among people learning English.

Special English was first used on October 19, 1959. Special English started in that year as one of radio programs by the Voice of America. This broadcasts adopt slow pace and simple English in order to increase understanding for millions of listeners. It is now also known as "Learning English".

Special English started in 1959. It was developed as an experimental radio program to spread information on news and culture to people outside the United States. Programs on VOA use a simpler English within about 1,500 words, and reports are paced 1/3 slower than regular English in order to allow listeners to increase a better understanding. This means broadcasters speak at about two-thirds the speed of conversational English. But is still far from sounding like a record played at the wrong speed. It now deals with various topics to keep interest of listeners, such as news, business, science, and culture. Stories are written in clear.

To be a Special English broadcaster, a person needs to do months of training. The training includes a professional voice trainer who teaches how to breathe properly and pronounce clearly. A chief of Special English at VOA said, "People in this country have likely never heard of Special English," and also said, "and, if they have, they often don't understand the significance of it to people in other countries."

One VOA staff explains that the main goal of Special English is for the listener to understand the content of what is being broadcast, and to make steady progress in English. “There is a fine line between being simplified and simplistic,” he says. “We never want to cross that line.” So when necessary, more “advanced” English words are used and the meanings made clear, so the stories never suffer from incomplete information.

Students and teachers in other countries say Special English is a good learning tool.

Some of popular programs on VOA follow.

VOA broadcast a program titled 'Willis Conover, the Voice of Jazz, Is Now Online" in the past, as Willis Conover became a famous host at Music USA.



