Homonym


A homonym is a word that has more than one meaning. For example, "right" means moral, the opposite of left, and a personal freedom.

Definition: one of a group of words that share the same spelling and pronunciation but have different meanings.

The point is that homonyms are both homophones (they sound the same) and homographs (they look the same).


Principal

A principal is a person who is in charge of something. The person is usually in charge of a school, or a research project, or a business.


Peru

Peru is a country in North, west South America. The capital of Peru is Lima. The ruins of Machu Picchu, the Andes mountains, and the source of the Amazon River are all found in Peru.

Peru is bordered to the north by Ecuador and Colombia, to the east by Brazil, to the south by Chile, and to the southeast by Bolivia. Peru is a representative democratic republic divided into 25 regions and over 33 million people live in it.

Peruvian territory was home to the Norte Chico civilization, one of the oldest in the world, and to the Inca Empire, the largest state in Pre-Columbian America. The Spanish Empire conquered the region in the 16th century and established a Viceroyalty, which included most of its South American colonies. After achieving independence in 1821. The most popular religion in Peru is Christianity. 

Peru suffered a terrible guerrilla war in the 1980s. The communist (Maoist) Shining Path tried to take over the country. But after the leader of the group was captured in 1992, Shining Path was not a threat anymore. During the 1990s, it was ruled by President Alberto Fujimori. During this time, the economy of Peru got better, and it became easier to start a company or operate a business. After Fujimori, Alejandro Toledo was elected president, and then Alan Garcia, who was president from 1985 to 1990, was elected again in 2006. Ollanta Humala was elected president in 2011 and Pedro Pablo Kuczynski was elected president in 2016. In March 2018, Kuczynski resigned following political scandals and Vice President Martín Vizcarra was sworn in as the next president.

Peru's most important exports, products that it sells to other countries, are fish, gold and other metals, oil, coffee, sugar, and cotton. Also, the food in Peru is very diverse, including typical dishes like Ceviche and Broiled Chicken.

Tourists from other countries like to come to Peru because of the history and also to enjoy nature. Many people come to climb mountains in the Cordillera Blanca in the Ancash Region, and many people visit Peru's long Pacific coast or the Amazon jungle. Cuzco and Machu Picchu are just two of the places where many buildings built by the Incas are still standing after hundreds of years, and these are some of the most visited places. The Incas were not the only tribe in Peru who left buildings and artifacts, but they were the most powerful.

Peru is divided into 25 regions of Peru regions. Lima is the capital and other main regions are Cuzco, Arequipa and Lambayeque. In the Amazon jungle region, we can find many important rivers and different animals, plants and people of many indigenous cultures.

Peru includes 29.5 million people.

The currency of Peru is the Nuevo Sol.

The population of Peru is approx. 30 million. The ethnic composition of Peru is like the following: 

As of 2018, about 22.3% of the population lives below the national poverty line

Peru was the home of the Inca Empire. The Incas were a well-organized Indian civilization that began the city of Cuzco (now called Cusco). Beginning in the 1400s, they defeated many nearby tribes and built an empire in the Andes. The Inca forced the people to work for the king for a certain number of days every year. They used this "work tax" to build roads and terraces on the sides of the mountains to grow crops, and huge cities with rich palaces for the rulers and their queens. Records were kept on quipa, knotted ropes, since the Incas never invented writing. These could be quickly sent anywhere in the empire by a series of relay runners set up along the roads. Heavier loads were sent by llamas, the pack animals of the Andes.
The Incas were rich in gold and silver which could be found in the mountains. The Spanish wanted that treasure when they discovered the nation in the 1500s. Francisco Pizarro, a Spanish man, kidnapped and killed the Inca ruler in 1532, even after his people paid a huge amount of treasure for his release. The Incas fought the Spanish for many years, but the last Inca king was killed in 1572.
Peru was a Spanish colony until 1821. Spanish is still the main language of the people, although many also speak Quechua, the Inca language.


Notes


States of Germany

The Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) has 16 states (). The biggest is Bavaria and the smallest is Bremen. Most of them were created after the Second World War. Some states have historical roots from the early Middle Ages.

State creation since 1949:

Population and area in km² as of November 2014:

Munich

Munich ( ; ; ) is the third biggest city of Germany (after Berlin and Hamburg), and the capital of Bavaria. It has a population of around 1,500,000. The metropolitan area of Munich includes the city itself, and all the suburbs around it, and has about 3 million people in it; whereas the metropolitan region has 6.2 million people (as of 2022). It is one of the most important centres of the economy in Germany. It has an oceanic climate ("Cfb" in the Köppen climate classification).

The official population of Munich city proper at 310.43 km was 1,368,840 people with their main home there on 31st January 2009. Around 176,000 inhabitants with second homes also live inside the city limits but they are not calculated in this official census. According to some estimates that population counts around 200,000 people. The fast growing Munich urban area has 2,667,000 inhabitants (2008 estimate). Munich city with all suburbs - 12,000 km had 4,700,000 inhabitants. The Munich metropolitan region that covers 27,700 km and includes Augsburg, Ingolstadt, Landshut, Rosenheim and Landsberg has around 6,000,000 inhabitants. Munich is the 12th largest city in EU by population within the city limits and the 14th largest urban area in Europe. Its metropolitan area ranks among the largest metro areas in Europe. As of December 2008, 47.3% of Munich's residents belonged to no religious group, 38.3% are Roman Catholic, 14.0% are Lutheran Protestants and 0.3% are Jewish. There is also a small Old Catholic parish and an Episcopal Church.

Munich has the strongest economy of any German city. They have the lowest unemployment rate (5.6%) of any German city with more than a million people.

Munich is the largest publishing city in Europe. It is home to the Süddeutsche Zeitung, one of Germany's largest daily newspapers. Munich is also home to Germany's largest public broadcasting network, ARD, and its largest commercial network, Pro7-Sat1 Media AG. The headquarters of the German branch of Random House, the world's largest publishing house, is in Munich.

The Bavaria Film Studios are in the suburb of Grünwald. They are one of Europe's biggest and most famous movie production studios.

Lufthansa has opened a second hub at Munich's Franz Josef Strauss International Airport. It is the second-largest airport in Germany, after Frankfurt International Airport.

Munich Airport - Franz Joseph Strauss (IATA: MUC, ICAO: EDDM)

Munich has one of the most comprehensive systems in the world. There are subways, suburban trains, trams and buses.

Munich is the most successful city in Bundesliga history. FC Bayern Munich have won 20 national championship along with 13 DFB Cups, 5 UEFA Champions League/European Championship, 1 UEFA Cup and 1 UEFA Cup Winners Cup for 39 trophies.

Munich hosted the 1972 Summer Olympics. They were one of the host cities for the 2006 Football World Cup. Munich bid to host the 2018 Winter Olympic Games but lost to Pyeongchang. In September 2011 the DOSB President Thomas Bach said that Munich would bid again for the Winter Olympics in the future.


Munich's universities are known for their high ranking in Germany.




