Andorra


Andorra (), officially the Principality of Andorra, is a landlocked sovereign country located in the eastern Pyrenees Mountains of Southern Europe and bordered by Spain and France. 

There are about 79,000 people living in the country. The capital is Andorra la Vella. It is ruled by a Spanish Bishop and the French President, who both hold the title of Co-Prince. Andorra's government is a parliamentary democracy.

Andorra is a rich country mostly because of tourism. There are about 10.2 million visitors each year.

The official language is Catalan, although Spanish and French are also used.

It is not a member of the European Union. The euro is the money used.

It is said that Charles the Great (Charlemagne) gave the Andorran people their country in return for fighting against the Moors.

Before 1095, Andorra did not have any type of military protection. The Lord of Caboet and the Bishop of Urgell decided to rule Andorra together. Andorra's first legislature was made in 1419.

Over time, the descendants of the Lord of Caboet eventually became the Kings of France. When France, became a republic, the French King's position as Co-Prince was taken by the President of France.

Andorra declared war on Imperial Germany during World War I. It did not do any fighting. They stayed against Germany until 1957 because they were not in the Treaty of Versailles.

Andorra is in the Pyrenees mountain range. The highest mountain is Coma Pedrosa.

The largest cities in Andorra are:
For other locations in Andorra, see List of cities in Andorra.

The politics of Andorra are very unique in comparison to the rest of the world. There are two heads of state, the Bishop of Urgell and the President of France, who hold the title of Co-Prince. This is because of an ancient treaty which said the Bishop of Urgell and the French leader would be the Co-Princes.

There is also an elected legislature named the General Council. It has between 28 and 42 members. The head of government is a member of the Council who is elected to the position by the Council.

Andorra doesn't have an Army. France and Spain help to defend Andorra. The country has a police force of 295.

The population of Andorra is mostly (90%) Roman Catholic. Their patron saint is Our Lady of Meritxell.

Children between the ages of 6 and 16 must have full-time education. Education up to secondary level is paid by the government.

The University of Andorra (UdA) is the state public university. It is the only university in Andorra.



