Hawaiian Islands


From west to east, Hawaii is made up of the following Hawaiian Islands:

The chain of islands stretches 2,400 km (1500 miles) in a southeasterly direction to the southern tip of the Island of Hawaii The hot-spot which formed them moved South-East in the Pacific Ocean. The hot-spot in the Earth's crust moved to where it is now, near the island of Hawaii, or, rather, the hot spot stayed where it was, and the plates of the Earth's crust moved, so creating the islands.


Hawaii has been a U.S. state since 1959.

The Hawaiian islands, plus former islands now below sea level (guyots), make up the Hawaiian–Emperor seamount chain.

Mauna Kea

Mauna Kea is a dormant volcano in the Hawaiian Islands. It is the highest point in Hawaii at 4,205 meters. If measured from top to bottom, below sea level, it is 10,200 meters high and would be the tallest mountain in the world. It is around 1,000,000 years old. Mauna Kea means 'white mountain' because in winter it often has snow at the summit. 

Mauna Kea is an important site for astronomy. Many different countries or institutions have an observatory there, including the National Astronomical Observatory of Japan. The W. M. Keck Observatory with its 10-meter mirror is one of the most powerful in the world. Mauna Kea is an important site, especially for infrared astronomy, because of its height and clear skies.

High altitude is important because atmosphere causes an effect called seeing, which limits the quality of images by blurring them. At high altitude, there is less atmosphere between the observatories and space and this lessens the effect.

Mauna Loa

Mauna Loa is an active volcano in the Hawaiian Islands of the United States.

“Mauna Loa” is Hawaiian for “long mountain”.

The volcano is at least in volume and over 4 kilometers above sea level. Measured from its base on the ocean floor, it reaches above 8 kilometers, making it the tallest mountain on Earth, but not the highest. That distinction is reserved for Mount Everest. 

Measured from sea level Mauna Loa is 4,169 meters high. It is also one of the largest volcanoes measuring 60 miles long and 30 miles wide. 

The world's biggest volcano is named Mauna Loa in Hawaii. Mauna Loa is part of the five volcanoes on Hawaii's 'Big Island'. The most recent time this volcano erupted was in 1984. It erupted 33 times in the last 170 years. Like all the other Hawaiian volcanoes, Mauna Loa was created by the movement of the Pacific tectonic plate which moved over the Hawaii hotspot in the Earth's mantle. It is a shield volcano. The largest recent eruption from Mauna Loa left a lava trail 51 kilometres (32 miles) long.

Kilauea

Kīlauea is an active volcano in the Hawaiian Islands. It is a shield volcano. The volcano is 1,277 meters high. Kīlauea is a large lake of lava. The crater of Kīlauea is named Pu'u'O'o. The first eruption of Kīlauea is estimated as 300 to 600 thousand years ago. Its first recorded eruptions were in 1823. Its most recent eruption was March 3 2018. It is still erupting now. The Hawaiian name "Kīlauea" means "spewing" or "much spreading". It refers to the constant flow of lava. Kīlauea lies on the curve of volcanoes on the island of Hawaii that includes Mauna Loa and Kohala. The volcano of Kīlauea is one of the youngest and also is said to be the home of an ancient volcano goddess Pele. The oldest dated rocks are said to be about 23,000 years old. It has its own magma plumbing under the Earth that goes down under the Earths crust by 60 km. Kīlauea has a basalt-based lava rock type hot-spot.

In May 2018, the volcano erupted causing damage in nearby homes and streets.

Van

A van is a type of vehicle. A van can carry either goods or people. Depending on the type of van, it can be bigger or smaller than a pickup truck, hatchback, station wagon, and SUV, A van is usually bigger than the regular sized car but relatively smaller than a truck/lorry or a bus. Panel vans (vans whose cargo space has no side windows) are used for deliveries and carrying goods. These usually have large cargo space and few windows. A van which is used to carry people is often called a "minibus". It can usually carry many people, sometimes up to a total of 15, however, cargo vans tend to be larger than box trucks and smaller than tractor-trailers, such as MAN F2000, Volvo FH, Renault Trucks K, Ashok Leyland U-Truck, Peterbilt 389, Isuzu Giga, Peterbilt 359, Peterbilt 379, Mack Super-Liner, Renault Trucks T, Bedford TM, Scania 4-series, Volvo VN, Mercedes-Benz Axor, Freightliner FLD, Ford LTL-9000, Hyundai Trago, Ford F-MAX, Freightliner Cascadia, Iveco S-Way, Renault Trucks C, Renault Premium, DAF CF, MAN TGA, MAN TGX, Renault Magnum, International LoneStar, International ProStar, Dodge Bighorn, MAN TGS, DAF XF, Mercedes-Benz Arocs, Kenworth W900, Freightliner FLA, Iveco Stralis, Chevrolet Bison/GMC General, Freightliner FLC 120 and Mercedes-Benz Actros with movable trailers. 

Unlike a pickup truck, many companies make vans, including Chevrolet, Daihatsu, Dodge, Fiat, Ford, GMC, Honda, Hyundai, Isuzu, Mazda, Mercedes-Benz, Mitsubishi, Nissan, Subaru, Suzuki, Toyota, Vauxhall, and Volkswagen.

You may usually drive a van with the same driver's license as an ordinary car, but the heaviest and largest vans may require a truck licence.

A minivan is smaller and usually carries up to seven people - and are taller than a sedan car, hatchback, station wagon, and SUV.


Luggage

People use luggage to carry their possessions when travelling. In the United States luggage is often called baggage.


Pantograph

A pantograph is a machine. It is used in drawing or planning. It makes it easy to copy diagrams. 

The device that an electric train uses to get its electricity is also called a pantograph, because it looks a bit like the drawing instrument.

Paperback

A paperback is a type of book. It has a cover of thick paper or thin cardboard. Paperback book covers can bend and be folded. The covers are laminated (have layers), and some of the methods are more durable (lasting) than others. Another name for paperback is "soft cover". 

Paperback books may be glued or held by sewing. If the pages are held only by adhesive, the book will eventually come apart. The quality of the paper also varies. It is generally less white than bound hardback books because it is less bleached.

Usually, paperback books cost less money than hardback books. In the middle 20th century a "mass market" type of paperback became commonplace, having a standard size, fitting a standard display rack, and glued. 

Palette

A palette is used for mixing colours.They are usually made out of plastic or wood but can be made out of other materials. An artist often uses one of these and is in fact an essential item in art, when painting.

Glow-worm

A glow-worm, or glowworm, is an insect.
Other names for glow-worms are fire-fly and lightning bug.

There are several insects given this name. Most are beetles, but one is a fly, "Arachnocampa". They are nocturnal, active during the night. They have special organs that can produce light. This is used to find mates. The patterns in which the beetles flash is unique to each species.

The major families are

Palette knife

A palette knife is not actually a knife. It has a very flexible steel blade and no sharpened cutting edge. It is a tool.

A palette knife is used for mixing paint colors. It may be used for mixing and applying a whole range of semi-fluid mixtures.

Foolscap

Foolscap is paper cut to the size of , sometimes . This was a traditional paper size used in Europe and the British Commonwealth, before the adoption of the international standard A4 paper, the most common standard size in the world. Foolscap was so called because, in the 18th century, folio-sized paper had the watermark of a fool's cap on it. Basically, it is taller than A4. 

In North America, foolscap is lined, legal-size paper. In some South American countries it is called "oficio", because it is or was used for official documents.

Paper of the size is now very rarely used, being superseded by A4 (297 x 210). However, some ring binders, lever arch files, suspended files, and other filing related things still use the size.

Polymer

A polymer is a molecule, made from joining many small molecules called monomers. The word "polymer" can be broken down into "poly" (meaning "many" in Greek) and "mer" (meaning "unit"). This shows how the chemical composition of a polymer consists of many smaller units (monomers) bonded together into a larger molecule. A chemical reaction bonding monomers together to make a polymer is called polymerization.

Some polymers are natural and made by organisms. Proteins have polypeptide molecules, which are natural polymers made from various amino acid monomer units. Nucleic acids are huge natural polymers made up of millions of nucleotide units. Cellulose and starch (two types of carbohydrate) are also natural polymers made up of glucopyranose monomer bonded together in different ways. Rubber is a mixture of polymers. Plastics are man-made polymers. Many fibers are made of polymers.

If the "units" called monomers in a polymer are all the same, then the polymer is called a "homopolymer". Homopolymers are named by adding the prefix poly- before the monomer name from which the polymer is made. For example, a polymer made by bonding styrene monomer molecules together is called polystyrene.

If the monomers are not all the same, the polymer is called a "copolymer" or a "heteropolymer".

Many polymer molecules are like "chains" where the monomer units are the links. Polymer molecules can be straight-chain, have "branching" from the main chain, or "cross-linking" between chains. As an example of cross-linking, sulfhydryl (-S-H) groups in two cysteine amino acid units in polypeptide chains can bond together to make a disulfide bridge (-S-S-) joining the chains together.

In the same way how large hydrocarbon molecules in crude oil can be broken down in smaller molecules e.g. ethylene by applying heat (a process called cracking), the monomer ethylene can then be turned into the polymer polyethylene by applying pressure and adding catalysts. Polyethelene is the basis of many plastic objects.


Medium

Medium might mean:




