Desktop environment


In graphical user interfaces and consoles a desktop environment is a location on a personal computer that helps the user get around on the computer. The desktop itself is a place in the operating system used for short cuts to computer files and folders on the hard drive. Computer icons (small pictures) are used to represent files/folders. Clicking these icons will open or start a folder or program. The desktop is the area where the start menu is if the computer has a start menu.

Usually the desktop is the main screen on the computer. If no programs or folders are open, the computer will display the desktop.

The most common desktop environment on personal computers is the one given by Microsoft Windows; another common environment is the one given by Apple Mac OS X. Other mostly-used desktop environments for Unix-like operating systems using the are KDE, GNOME, Xfce. There are also other desktop environments, including : Aston, EDE, Graphical Environment Manager, IRIX Interactive Desktop, Sun's Java Desktop System, Mezzo, Project Looking Glass, ROX Desktop, UDE, Xito, XFast.

OpenOffice.org

OpenOffice.org was a free open source office suite. The free software project was hosted by Sun Microsystems and then Oracle Corporation and it was based on the older StarOffice software that was created by Sun Microsystems. It was available for many different operating systems, including Microsoft Windows, Linux, OS X, FreeBSD and Solaris; and was meant to be an alternative to Microsoft Office. It supported Microsoft Office file formats as well as its own OpenDocument format.

The ".org" part of the previous name OpenOffice.org was there because OpenOffice is already trademarked. It was often called "OOo" for short.

In January 2010, Oracle Corporation bought Sun Microsystems, which developed OpenOffice.org until that point. In September 2010, a large part of the developers created The Document Foundation and forked the project into the new LibreOffice project because, among other reasons, they were not certain if the development would be successful under Oracle management. In April 2011, Oracle stopped development of OpenOffice.org and laid off the remaining development team. A few months later, it donated the existing source code and trademarks to the Apache Foundation, which released the first version of Apache OpenOffice.

OpenOffice is a collection of applications that work together closely to provide the features expected from a modern office suite. Many of the parts are designed to be alternatives to those available in Microsoft Office. The parts available include:

Download

Download means getting information from another computer or server. The opposite of downloading is uploading, which is sending data to another computer. Usually we do not say "download" for a single web page (for example when you open this page on your computer). When we say we downloaded something, it is normally a bigger computer file, like data or a computer program.

The word downloadable means the ability to get information or data from an owner for one's use. The source is expected to be authentic and have the right to send it. At the user's end, the downloaded information or data are to be used based on agreement notice.

In the 21st century, it is very easy to download files or informations - legally or not - from the internet.

As most non-technical users use the word download to talk about any data transfer, the word "sideload" is sometimes used for local to local transfers as distinct from distant ones.

GNOME

GNOME is a computer desktop environment. It was designed for Linux, but many other operating systems can use it too. GNOME aims to provide an easy way to use a computer. GNOME is a free software project. It was made because people were questioning whether KDE is free. GNOME is part of the GNU project.

According to the GNOME website:

The GNOME project puts heavy emphasis on simplicity, usability, and making things “just work” (see "KISS principle"). The other aims of the project are:


GNOME has many applications written for it. Some of them include:




