Wigan Athletic F.C.


Wigan Athletic Football Club is an English football club from Wigan, Greater Manchester. The club plays in the Championship, currently managed by Owen Coyle. They play their home games at the DW Stadium. In 2012-13 they won the FA Cup by beating Manchester City 1-0 and so they played in the UEFA Europa League in the season 2013/14. A few days later they were relegated from the English Premier League to the Football League Championship, becoming the first FA Cup-winning side to be relegated in the same season. Manager Roberto Martínez left the club shortly after to join Everton. Owen Coyle replaced him.
Wigan Athletic Official Supporters Club (formally known as Wigan Athletic Supporters Travel Club) is the official supporters' association of Wigan Athletic Football Club. The supporters club are a non-profit organisation run by volunteers and meet before home matches in the South Stand Bar.

Since Wigan Athletic's admission to the Football League in 1978, the club has built up several rivalries, mainly with Bolton Wanderers. They also have a rivalry with Manchester City, due to the two clubs' proximity and and being in the same division for much of the past 30 years.

As listed on the official Wigan Athletic website.


Wigan's victory in the 2013 FA Cup Final qualified them for European football for the first time, earning them an automatic place in the group stage of the 2013–14 UEFA Europa League.

Wimbledon F.C.

Wimbledon Football Club was an English football club. The club began in Wimbledon in 1889. In 2002 it moved to Milton Keynes and it 2004 it changed its name to Milton Keynes Dons F.C. Many football fans in Wimbledon did not agree with the move. They decided to start a new club there, which is called AFC Wimbledon.

The club played in the English Football League and won the FA Cup in 1988. It was a professional football club, which means that the players get paid to play.

In 1992, the club decided that its ground at Plough Lane was too small and moved away from Wimbledon to Selhurst Park in Croydon. This ground is owned by Crystal Palace F.C.. They stayed there for the next 12 years.

In 2002, the club's owners decided that they wanted to move the club out of London. Nobody really knows why they wanted to move. They said that there were too many clubs in London, that not enough people were coming to watch the matches. This meant that they did not collect enough money at the gate to pay everyone and that is why they could not afford to stay. They looked at Cardiff and Dublin before deciding to move to Milton Keynes. Milton Keynes is a new city that is 45 miles (or 75 kilometres) north of London. When they said what they wanted to do, most of their fans stopped paying to see matches, which meant that they had even less money to pay everyone.

Before the move could happen, they had to get permission from the Football Association (the FA). The FA is the association of all the football clubs in England. The clubs elect a Committee to decide what to do about things. Most things they have to decide are easy but this was not easy to decide. Or maybe they knew what to decide but did not want to be the ones to decide it. So they asked three clever men to study the problem and tell them what would be best to do. These three men said that the club should be allowed to move. 

Some members of the Committee did not like this decision and tried to stop it. But the owners of Wimbledon F.C. said that they would get a judge to decide (in a court) if anyone tried to stop them. It costs a lot of money to go to court and whoever loses has to pay for everybody. The other clubs would not agree to pay if this happened, so the FA had to disagree the move.

But it was already too late for the owners of Wimbledon F.C. They had no money left. They had borrowed money from the bank to keep going but now the bank wanted its money back. When you cannot pay back what you borrow, this is called "going bankrupt" and that is what happened. Luckily (or unluckily, depends on your point of view), the group in Milton Keynes that first wanted them to come, still wanted them. So this group paid back some of the money and in 2002, the club moved to Milton Keynes. They began playing in the National Hockey Stadium, beside Milton Keynes Central railway station and stayed there for two years until their new stadium was ready (2006). 

Many football fans around England did not like the idea that a club could move. They believe that a club belongs to a town and it is not like a furniture shop that closes down in one town and opens in another town. Another reason that they did not like it is that they would love to see their own club get into the Football League. The only way that they can do that is if they win their regional league, then win the Football Conference. So they felt that Milton Keynes was "jumping the queue" to get into the League. Because of this, many fans refused to attend ("boycotted") any games they played

In 2004, the new owners changed the name to 'Milton Keynes Dons F.C.' (usually just 'MK Dons'), which combined the name of their new home ('Milton Keynes') with the nickname ('Dons') from Wimbledon. With this, Wimbledon FC ceased to exist.

But the boycott continued. In 2006, the Football Fans Federation proposed a way forward. The most important thing for the town of Wimbledon was the trophies (cups, shields) that the club had won when it was called Wimbledon F.C. The agreement was that Milton Keynes Dons F.C. would give these trophies to Merton Borough Council, which is the local government area that contains Wimbledon. The league history of Milton Keynes Dons F.C. would start from 2004 which is when they changed their name. The Fans Federation would ask fans to end the boycott. Everybody agreed and this is what has happened. 

Accrington Stanley F.C.

Accrington Stanley Football Club is an English football club.

The club will play in League Two (the English fourth division) in the 2015/16 season.

They were re-founded in 1968 after going bankrupt (having no money) in 1962. They were first founded in 1921. They are thought of a hard working club but having no chance of success. Their nickname is Stanley. They play at the Interlink Express Stadium in Accrington in Lancashire, in England.

Telford United F.C.

A.F.C Telford United is a football club based in Telford, Shropshire, England. They are currently a member of the National League North, the sixth tier of English football.

They were founded in 2004. They are based off the original Telford United, which folded in 2004 after financial problems.

They play their home games in New Bucks Head in Wellington, which is a part of Telford.

A.F.C. Wimbledon

AFC Wimbledon is an English football club from London. The club are currently in EFL League One.

AFC Wimbledon were formed in 2002 by fans angry at Wimbledon F.C. moving to Milton Keynes, 70 miles away from South London. They play at Plough Lane in London.

Sheffield F.C.

Sheffield Football Club is a football club in England.

Sheffield F.C. is the oldest football club in the world. It was set up in 1857 in the city of Sheffield.

Unlike Sheffield United F.C. and Sheffield Wednesday F.C., it does not play in a national league.

Asteroid belt

The asteroid belt or main belt is a ring of small and large rocks and dust between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter. The biggest object in the asteroid belt is Ceres, a dwarf planet. The Kirkwood gaps separate the asteroid belt into several groups.

Most asteroids orbit at 2 to 3 times the distance between Earth and the Sun. Planets that are "inside" - or before - the asteroid belt (which means they are closer to the sun) are called "inner planets." Planets that are "outside" - that is, after - the asteroid belt are called "outer planets": so Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars are "inner planets," while Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune are the "outer planets."

In 1802, shortly after discovering 2 Pallas, Heinrich Olbers suggested to William Herschel that Ceres and Pallas were fragments of a much larger planet that once occupied the Mars–Jupiter region, this planet having suffered an internal explosion or a cometary impact many million years before. This hypothesis has fallen from favor. The large amount of energy needed to destroy a planet, and with the belt's low combined mass (only about 4% of the mass of the Moon) do not support the hypothesis. Also, the significant chemical differences between the asteroids are difficult to explain if they come from the same planet. Today, most scientists accept that the asteroids never formed a planet at all.

The Solar System formed when a cloud of interstellar dust and gas collapsed under the influence of gravity to form the Sun and planetesimals, and eventually the planets. This gravitational accretion led to the formation of the rocky planets and the gas giants.

Planetesimals in the region which would become the asteroid belt were too strongly disturbed by Jupiter's gravity to form a planet. Instead they continued to orbit the Sun as before, while occasionally colliding. In regions where the velocity of the collisions was too high, the shattering of planetesimals was more common than accretion, preventing the formation of planet-sized bodies.

Essen

Essen (; Low Franconian and Ripuarian: "Esse", () is a German city in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. It is on the Ruhr River and it is near Cologne, Duisburg and Bochum. Essen has 585,000 inhabitants. Together with Dortmund, Essen is the biggest city of the Ruhr area with its 5,000,000 inhabitants. Essen is often called the shopping city ("Einkaufsstadt") because there are so many malls and shops in it.

Essen is in North Rhine-Westphalia and part of the Ruhr area, where eleven cities and four districts are. The rivers Ruhr and Emscher flow through the city. The lake "Baldeney" is part of the Ruhr. Essen's neighbour cities are Oberhausen, Mülheim an der Ruhr, Ratingen, Heiligenhaus and Velbert in the Rhineland; and Hattingen, Bochum, Gelsenkirchen, Gladbeck and Bottrop in Westphalia. Other near cities are Duisburg, Düsseldorf, Cologne, Dortmund and Münster.

Because of the large number of coal mine workers in Essen, the SPD, the Social Democratic Party of Germany, always was very strong in Essen. During the time of National Socialism, the Nazi Party installed the mayors. But from 1999 to 2009, the Christian Democratic Party ruled the city with the mayor Dr.Wolfgang Reiniger. At the local elections of 2009, the SPD's candidate Reinhard Paß became the new mayor.


Around 850, Saint Altfrid founded the "Damenstift", an abbey for women, ruled by a prince abbess. In this time the cathedral of Essen was built. In those days the name of the city was "Assindia" in Latin. Later it changed over "Essendia" and "Essend" to "Essen". 1377 Essen became a "free imperial city". At this time, Essen was just a small city in a region where few people lived. The city became more important when the Industrial Revolution began. In 1811, "Friedrich Krupp" founded a small steel factory in Essen which was fast growing. The city population also grew, and 80 years after the foundation of Krupp's steel work, Essen was a big city with 100,000 inhabitants. Because in the region of the Ruhr River much coal was found, many coal mines were founded in Essen and other near cities. Great industrial families like the "Krupp"s, the "Haniel"s and the "Grillo"s gave money for cultural buildings like the Grillo theatre and the Folkwang museum. Because of its big industry, Essen was destroyed with bombs in the Second World War. Many people gave their lives, and many buildings were destroyed. Not all were rebuilt after WW2. But because the coal mining industry ended mining in Essen in the 1970s (coal from abroad was getting cheaper), the city was getting poor. The "Strukturwandel" (structural change) saved Essen. Old collieries like "Zeche Zollverein" became museums or theatres. In 2003, the universities of Essen and Duisburg joined as the university Duisburg-Essen.
In 2010 Essen was "Kulturhauptstadt Europas" (European Capital of Culture) together with Istanbul and Pécs in Hungary.

The "WDR" ("Westdeutscher Rundfunk/Western German Broadcasting") has a TV-station in Essen. The two biggest newspapers, the "WAZ" ("Westdeutsche Allgemeine Zeitung/Western German common newspaper") and the "NRZ", the "Neue Ruhr Zeitung/New Ruhr newspaper" (at the lower Rhine region"Neue Rhein Zeitung/New Rhein newspaper") are in the city. Both newspapers belong to the WAZ-media group. Essen also has a radio station named "Radio Essen".

Essen has nine districts ("Bezirke") and 50 boroughs ("Stadtteile"). The most famous and most known are "Kettwig", until 1975 a separate town and not part of Essen, with the "Altstadt" of Kettwig, where many timber framing houses are ("Fachwerkhäuser"). Also well-known is "Werden". It lays like Kettwig in the south of the city and is the oldest borough of Essen. The "Werden abbey" stands here. In Essen-"Rüttenscheid" there are many cultural buildings (like the "Folkwang" or the "Ruhrland" museum). The WDR-studio and Essen's trade fair, the "Gruga" are also in Rüttenscheid. In the north of Essen is "Katernberg", where in the past the coal mine workers lived. Here is "Zeche Zollverein". In Katernberg, many houses were built by the Krupp family for their workers. Another big coal mine worker's borough, perhaps the biggest, is "Margarethenhöhe" near Rüttenscheid. It is named after Margarethe Krupp, wife of Friedrich Alfred Krupp. The Krupps wanted their workers to be absolutely dependent on them. So they built houses and malls for them, where they should spend their money, what they got from Krupp, again to the industrials. Today Margarethenhöhe is one of the most beautiful boroughs of Essen. Another big borough of Essen is "Steele" in the east of the city, that was in the 19th and early 20th century a city as big as Essen. In the west of Essen is "Borbeck", which was long separate from Essen. In Borbeck is the great Borbeck Castle ("Schloss Borbeck"). The people of Borbeck speak their own regional dialect, the "Borbecker Platt".

The nine districts of Essen are:

The most known people from Essen are the actor Heinz Rühmann, whose parents were the owner of Essen's famous hotel "Handelshof" near the Central Station ("Hauptbahnhof)", Carl Humann, explorer of the Great Altar of Pergamon, Karl Baedeker, a publisher whose company made many books for tourists ("Baedeker"), Alfred Krupp and Franz Dinndendahl, who made the first steam machine in the Ruhr area. These people were born in the city. Other people who were not born in Essen but lived and worked there a long time are Berthold Beitz, who saved the Krupp company from the ruin, Wilhelm Busch, a famous poet and painter or Gustav Heinemann, a German politician who was mayor of Essen and federal president of Germany. Other people like Otto von Bismarck and Paul von Hindenburg were honorary people in Essen.

The most popular sport in Germany is "Association football" or "soccer". The most important soccer clubs of Essen are "Rot-Weiß Essen (RWE)" and "Schwarz-Weiß Essen". They play in the 4th and the 5th league. More successfully is the women's association football club "SG Essen-Schönebeck" that plays in the first "Bundesliga".
The second big sport is team handball. "TUSEM Essen" is the most important club in Essen.
The most popular ice hockey club is named "ESC Moskitos Essen" and the biggest basketball club "ETB Wohnbau Baskets Essen".
Essen also has many table tennis and swimming clubs.

Essen's twin towns are:

Gardening

Gardening is the growing of plants such as flowers, shrubs and trees as a hobby or recreation. Some people also grow vegetables or fruit in their gardens. People do gardening outdoors in the soil in their backyard, or in pots or containers on their balcony or on their patio. Some people do gardening on a roof.

People do indoor gardening inside their house or inside a building. Sometimes indoor gardening is done in greenhouses, which are special buildings where plants are grown. A greenhouse has a transparent glass or plastic roof and walls that let sunlight in. Grow tent is also used for indoor plants. Grow tent helps plant to grow in a more spectacular and develop a friendly environment. Water gardening is growing plants in ornamental water pools and ponds. People doing water gardening plant water lilies and other aquatic plants. 

Gardening can be done outside of the home, in city parks, botanical gardens, zoos, amusement parks, theme parks, and around tourist attractions. These types of gardens are cared for by people called gardeners or groundskeepers.

Gardening is related to farming. But farming is done on a much larger scale. A farm may have hundreds of square kilometres of plants and crops. A garden in a person's backyard usually only measures a few square meters. As well, farming is done as a business, to sell the crops, fruit, and vegetables that are produced. Gardening is often done just to produce fruit or vegetables for the gardener's own family. Gardening may be a hobby or a recreation. Gardening for sale is called "market gardening".

Gardeners use tools to dig in the soil and water the crops. These tools include a spade, a fork, a hoe, a basket, a watering can, a hose, a Sprinkler, a bucket, a trowel and a wheelbarrow. With growing, technology gardeners now have tech like Self-watering containers, Garden sensors, Hydroponic systems and Indoor lighting systems.

In many countries and cultures, designing beautiful gardens is treated as a fine art. In Japan, for instance, Zen monks created Japanese gardens. In Europe in the 1700s, kings and queens had formal gardens built. One example is the gardens at the Versailles palace in Paris, France. Landscaping, the making of an artificial landscape, may include gardening and the designer may be a professional landscape architect.


Democracy

Democracy means "rule by the people". There are different ways this can be done:

The type of government where power is in the hands of a single person is called a dictatorship. Democracy is the opposite of a dictatorship. The Soviet Union almost always was a dictatorship, as Russia is today. Dictatorships often act against freedom of expression. 

An important source of information is the Democracy Index published by the "Economist" periodical.

Elections are simple: The candidate with the most votes gets elected. Very often, the politicians being elected belongs to a political party. Instead of choosing a person, people vote for a party. The party with the most votes then picks the candidates.

Usually, the people being elected need to meet certain conditions: They need to have a certain age or a government body needs to determine that they are suitably qualified to perform the job.

Not everyone can vote in an election. Suffrage is only given to people who are citizens. The young are usually excluded, and some other groups such as prisoners.

For some elections, a country makes voting compulsory. Someone who does not vote and who does not give a good reason, usually has to pay a fine. 

Democracy may be direct or indirect.

In a direct democracy, every adult has the right to vote on individual laws. A modern example of direct democracy is a referendum, which is the name for deciding a law where everyone in the community votes on it. Direct democracies are not usually used to run countries. It is not practical to have everyone voting on everything.

In an indirect, or representative democracy, people choose representatives to make laws for them. These people can be mayors, councilmen, members of Parliament, or other government officials. This is the usual kind of democracy. Large communities like cities and countries use this method, but it may not be needed for a small group.

A term for democracies which are not actually democracies. For example, a constitution of a country may be democratic, but ways are found to interfere with elections. The classic case is Russia, where opposition candidates are not allowed to state their case on any of the state-controlled media. Elections for President are fixed, but the state can claim democratic legitimacy, because in principle other candidates may stand for election. Opposition candidates have no access to the media, and may be harassed in various ways. This is the way all the former parts of the Soviet Union are governed. This does not mean the governments are always bad governments. It does mean that holding "fixed" elections deprives the people of a fair vote. Not surprisingly, these countries have Presidents who are never beaten in an election. They may serve for eight years or longer before retiring. The next leaders are pre-chosen by discussion between the leading families.

The European Parliament says Russia functions as a unitary state despite officially being a federation.

Democracy was developed long ago by the Greeks in classical Athens. There, everyone who was a citizen (not slaves, women, foreigners, and children) got together in one area. The assembly would talk about what kinds of laws they wanted and voted on them. The council would suggest the laws. All citizens were allowed in the assembly.

The council were picked by draws (lottery). The participants in the council would change every year, and the number of people in the council was at the most 500. For some offices, the Athenian citizens would pick a leader by writing the name of their favorite candidate on a piece of stone or wood. The person with the most votes became the leader.

In the Middle Ages, there were many systems, although only a few people could join in at this time. The Parliament of England began from the Magna Carta, a document which said that the King's power was limited, and protected certain rights of the people. The first elected parliament was De Montfort's Parliament in England in 1265.

However, only a few people could actually join in. Parliament was chosen by only a few percent of the people (in 1780, fewer than 3% of people joined in). The ruler also had the power to call parliaments. After a long time, the power of Parliament began to grow. After the Glorious Revolution in 1688, the English Bill of Rights 1689 made Parliament more powerful. Later, the king or queen became a symbol instead of having real power.

Democratic consolidation means how a new democracy matures. Once mature, it is unlikely to revert to dictatorship rule without an external shock.

The idea is that unconsolidated democracies suffer from intermittent elections which are not free and fair. In other words, powerful groups are able to prevent the system working fairly.

Game

A game is something that people often do for fun. It is different from work. Many sports are games, and there are many professional sports. In those cases, there is money to be made, because it is a type of entertainment.

There are different kinds of games using many kinds of equipment. For example, in video games, people often use controllers or their keyboard to control what happens on a screen, such as a television screens and computers ones too. In card games, players use playing cards. There are also games that use your body, such as the Kinect. Most games need equipment, but not always. Children's street games often need no equipment.

In board games, players may move pieces on a flat surface called a "board". The object of the game varies. In race-type games like ludo, the object is to reach the end first. In go the object is to surround more space. In soccer it is to score more goals. Some games have complicated rules, some have simple rules.

Ludwig Wittgenstein was most likely the first academic philosopher to talk about the meaning of the word "game". In his "Philosophical Investigations", Wittgenstein showed that the elements (parts) of games, such as play, rules, and competition, all fail to really define what games are. He decided that people apply the term "game" to a range of different human things that are related, but not closely related .

"Homo Ludens" (Playing Man) is a book written in 1938 by Dutch historian Johan Huizinga. It discusses the importance of the play element in culture and society. Huizinga suggests that play is a condition for the generation of culture.

French sociologist Roger Caillois, in his book "Les jeux et les hommes (Games and Men)", said that a game is an activity which is these things:


Computer game designer Chris Crawford tried to define the word "game" using a series of comparisons:

Crawford's definition of a game is: an interactive, goal-oriented activity, with opponents to play against, and where players and opponents can interfere with each other.

The first writer of history was Herodotus, an ancient Greek. He wrote a book called “The Histories” around 440 BC, which is nearly 2500 years ago. Some of the stories he wrote were not true, and we don't know if this is one of those.

Herodotus tells us about king Atys; he ruled about 5,500 [five thousand five hundred] years ago in a country called Lydia. His country was in western Asia Minor, near modern Greece. Atys had a serious problem; his lands had very little food because the climate was not good for agriculture. The people of Lydia demonstrated patience and hoped that the good times of plenty would return.

But when things failed to get better, the people of Lydia thought up a strange solution for their problem. The path they took to fight their natural need to eat – the hungry times caused by the unusually hard climate - was to play games for one entire day so that they would not think about food. On the next day they would eat, so eating occurred every second day. In this way they passed 18 years, and in that time they invented dice, balls, and all the games commonly played today.

Games appear in all cultures all over the world, an ancient custom that brings people together for social opportunities. Games allow people to go beyond the limit of the immediate physical experience, to use their imagination. Common features of games include a finish that you cannot forecast, agreed upon rules, competition, separate place and time, imaginary elements, elements of chance, established goals and personal enjoyment. Games are used to teach, to build friendships, and to indicate status.

In his 1938 history book the Dutch writer Johan Huizinga says that games are older than human culture. He sees games as the beginning of complex human activities such as language, law, war, philosophy and art. Ancient people used bones to make the first games. Dice are very early game pieces. Games began as part of ancient religions. The oldest gaming pieces ever found – 49 [forty nine] small painted stones with pictures cut into them from 5,000 [five thousand] years ago – come from Turkey, so perhaps the history of Herodotus is true. One of the first board games, Senet, appears in ancient Egypt around 3,500 [three thousand five hundred] years ago. The ancient Greeks had a board game similar to checkers, and also many ball games.

The first reference to the game of Go occurs in Chinese records from around 2,400 [two thousand four hundred] years ago. Originally the game Go was used by political leaders to develop skill in strategy and mental skill. Knowing how to play Go was required by a Chinese gentleman, along with the skills of artistic writing or calligraphy, painting and the ability to play a musical instrument. These were regarded as the four most important skills. In ancient China, a gentleman had to pass a test in these four key skills in order to get a good paying job in the government. The Chinese brought Go to Korea, and it entered Japan around 1,500 [one thousand five hundred] years ago, and it has been popular ever since.

In March 2016 a Google computer program beat the best Go players in the world. Go is believed to be the most complex board game ever created. Is this computer program smarter than a person? Well, it did beat the South Korean Go master Lee Se-dol, and Lee was surprised by the result. He acknowledged defeat after three and a half hours of play. Demis Hassabis, who made the Google program, called it an important moment in history, because a machine beat the best person in the world in an intelligent game. Such computer programs rely on what is called artificial intelligence. Go is a two-player game of strategy said to have had an origin in China perhaps around 3,000 [three thousand] years ago. Players compete to win more territory by placing black and white “stones” on a board made up of 19 [nineteen] lines by 19 [nineteen] lines.

The first computer game that was ever created was probably the game OXO by Alexander Douglas in 1952. It was a version of tic-tac-toe. But most people consider the first true computer game where players actually participate to be Tennis for Two developed in 1958 by the physics scientist William Higginbotham. He wanted to teach about gravity, the force of attraction between masses. These men who created the early computer games did not forecast the potential for the popular use of games, because at that period in modern history it took a small room full of computers to make these games work! Another early game was Spacewar! developed in 1961 by MIT university student Steve Russell. In 1972 the company Atari produced the Pong game which was a huge commercial success; being a commercial success means that it made a lot of money. This was the true beginning of computer games that could be played at home.

Today, all around the world people spend more than 3,000,000,000 [three billion] hours a week playing computer games. This is equivalent to more than 342,000 [three hundred and forty two hundred thousand] years!



