Million


1,000,000 (1000000, one million or one thousand thousand or million or thousand thousand for short) is a natural number between 999,999 and 1,000,001. The name is derived from Italian, where was 1,000, and 1,000,000 became a ""milione"", as 'a large thousand'.

In scientific notation, the number is written as 1×10 or just 10. Physical quantities can also be explained using the SI prefix when using SI units. For example, 1 megawatt is 1,000,000 watts.

The word 'million' is common to both the short-scale and long-scale numbering systems, unlike the larger numbers, which have different names in the two systems.

The million is sometimes used in the English language as a metaphor for a very large number, as in 'Never in a million years' and 'You're one in a million', or as hyperbole, as in 'I've walked a million miles'.

"Il Milione" is the title of Marco Polo's narration of his travels in China. The name is supposed to come from Polo's nickname after his tales of riches and multitudes.

1/Turkey:xx666/Lira:×666/3/Turkish××666/Correctly:Ato:Fedelra:Germa:Erise
1000 (number)

1000 (1,000, one thousand or thousand for short) is the natural number after 999 and before 1001. One thousand thousands is known as a million.

In Roman numerals, 1000 is written as M.


Gross domestic product

In economics, gross domestic product (GDP) is how much a place produces in an amount of time. GDP can be calculated by adding up its output (total production) inside a country.

To find the GDP of a country, one adds up all consumer spending (C), all investment (I), all government spending minus taxes (G), and the value of exports minus imports ("X – M"). This is shown by the equation:formula_1 This measure is often used to find out how healthy a country is; a country with a high value of GDP can be called a large economy. The United States has the largest GDP in the world. Germany has the largest in Europe, Nigeria in Africa and China in Asia.

When a country's GDP is negative for two consecutive quarters it is considered to be in a recession. This is an unhealthy state for the country.

There are different ways to calculate GDP. Nominal GDP is the total amount of money spent on all the goods (new and final) in an economy; however, real GDP (adjusting for changes in prices) tries to correct this number for inflation. For example, if the prices rise by 2% (meaning, everything costs 2% more) and the nominal GDP grows by 5%, the real GDP growth is only increased by 3%.

GDP per capita is the total income of a country divided by the number of people living in that country. It shows how rich people are, on average.

There are also different ways of calculating GDP per capita: nominal and purchasing power parity (PPP). Nominal does not take into account the inflation rate and the cost of living of a country, but it's more useful when comparing national economies on the international market. PPP may be more useful when comparing peoples' living standards between countries.

The GDP measure is different from gross national product (GNP) in that GNP = GDP + net income from assets in other countries (net income receipts).

When the gross domestic product is evaluated at the current market prices, it is called the nominal GDP. It includes changes in prices which makes it different from the real GDP due to inflation or price fluctuations. It can be measured in one of three different ways: "income approach" uses the total of all income from businesses and individuals in a single year; the "expenditure approach" uses the market value of all goods purchased in a single year; and the "production approach" is based on the total production in a single year.

Cricket

Cricket is a popular sport with a long history. It was invented in the 16th century in England, but it was a long time before modern rules were used. 

It is played between two teams of eleven players each. One team, which is batting, tries to score runs, while the other team is fielding, and tries to prevent this. Runs are scored by hitting the ball, which is thrown by a player from the fielding team to a player from the batting team, across the boundary, or by the two batting players running back-and-forth between the two wickets.

The wickets are sets of three small, wooden posts that are at each end of a rectangle of short grass called 'the pitch', which is 22 yards long. The pitch is inside a much larger oval of grass called the 'area of play'. The area of play is a 30 yard circle inside the cricket ground or stadium. The fielding team can attempt to get batting players "out" in a number of ways. When a player is out, a teammate will replace them. When a team no longer has two "not-out" players left to score, then the other team gets the chance to bat. 

The game started to gain popularity in England in the 17th century. The earliest definite reference to the sport is in a court case of 1598. The Guildford court heard John Derrick, a coroner, that fifty years earlier, "he and diverse of his fellows did run and play [on the common land] at cricket". Later, the game spread to countries of the British Empire in the 19th and 20th centuries.

Today, it is a popular sport in England, Australia, India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, South Africa, New Zealand, the West Indies and several other countries such as Afghanistan, Ireland, Kenya, Scotland, the Netherlands, and Zimbabwe.

There are two teams: The team bowling has 11 players on the field. The team batting has two players, one at each end of the pitch (also sometimes called the wicket).


The captain of the bowling team chooses a bowler from his team; the other players are called 'fielders'.


The bowler runs towards his wicket, and bowls towards the batsman at the other wicket.


The batsman is trying to defend the wicket from getting hit with the ball. He does this with a bat. When he hits the ball with his bat, he may run toward the other wicket.


There are different ways that a batsman can get out. The most common ways are:


When a batsman is out, another comes onto the field to take his place. The innings is over when ten wickets are taken (i.e. ten of the eleven batsmen are out). After this, the team which was the 'fielding' team becomes the 'batting' team. They now have to score more runs than the other team managed to score. If they score more runs before ten wickets are taken, they win. If they do not, the other team wins.

In a one-day game, each side has one innings, and innings are limited to a certain number of overs. In longer formats each side has two innings, and there is no specific limit to the number of overs in an innings.

Cricket is popular in many countries, mostly in Commonwealth countries.

The countries where cricket is most popular compete in international matches (games between countries) that last up to 5 days, which are called Test matches. Those countries are England, Australia, West Indies, South Africa, New Zealand, India, Bangladesh, Zimbabwe, Ireland, Afghanistan and Sri Lanka. The West Indies are a group of Caribbean countries that play together as a team. Several other countries have more junior status. The test match idea was invented by teams from England and Australia in the 19th century. Ireland and Afghanistan are the new teams which can play Test cricket.

Cricket is also played in Kenya, Canada, Bermuda, Scotland, Holland and Namibia; the national teams of those countries can play one-day international matches, but do not play test matches.

A cricket field is where cricket is played. It is circular or oval-shaped grassy ground. There are no fixed dimensions for the field. Its diameter usually varies between 450 feet (137 m) to 500 feet (152 m).

Test matches are the top international matches played between countries. The main point of test cricket is to test young players. The countries permitted to play test matches are accredited by the ICC: the International Cricket Council. The twelve countries are listed below, with 'West Indies',' England' counting for this purpose as a country. Tests last for up to five days (This is why many also call it "5-day cricket.") and can still end in a draw match : it is the longest format of cricket.

Test Playing Nations "in order of first dates":

Called counties in England, and states in Australia and islands in the West Indies. These are usually four-day matches, but are sometimes played over three-days.

In these games, the length is determined by the number of overs, and each side has one innings only. A special formula, known as the 'Duckworth–Lewis System (DLS)' is applied if rain reduces the time for play. It calculates the target score for the team batting second in a limited overs match interrupted by weather or other circumstance.

ODIs are usually restricted to 50 overs batting for each side and each bowler can bowl up to 10 overs maximum. The highest team score is England 481-6 against Australia on June 19, 2018. The highest individual score is 264 off 173 balls by Rohit Sharma for India against Sri Lanka.

Twenty20 cricket has 20 overs for each side and each bowler can bowl up to 4 overs maximum unlike 10 overs in an ODI match. The highest team score is 263/5 by Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) against Pune Warriors India (PWI) in the 2013 IPL season.The highest individual score is 175* off 69 balls by Chris Gayle for RCB in the same match.

In cricket there are two special kinds of average, used to measure how good a player is:

There is a separate set of averages for each type of cricket listed above.



