Phrase


A "phrase" is a group of words that adds meaning to a sentence. A phrase is not a sentence because it is not a complete idea with a subject, verb and a predicate. 18/11/2023

In English there are five different kinds of phrases, one for each of the main parts of speech. In a phrase, the main word, or the word that is what the phrase is about, is called the head. In these examples, it is printed in bold. The other words in the phrase do the work of changing or "modifying" the head.

In a 'Noun phrase', one or more words work together to give more information about a noun.


In an Adjective phrase, one or more words work together to give more information about an adjective.


In a Verb phrase, one or more words work together to give more meaning to a verb. In English, the verb phrase is very complex, but a good description of its many forms can be found here.

In an Adverb phrase, one or more words work together to give more information about an adverb.


In a Prepositional phrase, one or more words work together to give information about time, location, or possession, or condition. The preposition always appears at the front of the phrase (preposition = pre-position).


Preposition

Prepositions often describe the position of something, the time when something happens or the way in which something is done. The prepositions "of", "to" and "for" have other functions. 

Prepositions may sometimes be used to end sentences. For example, "What did you put that there for?" (better English is the alternative: "Why did you put that there?") Example 2: "A pen is a device to write with" (better English is "A pen is a writing device"). In general, because they are links, prepositions belong in the middle of sentences, rather than at the end.

The table below shows some examples of how prepositions are used in sentences.


Pronoun

A pronoun is traditionally a part of speech in grammar, but many modern linguists call it a type of noun. In English, pronouns are words such as "me, she, his, them, herself, each other, it, what". 
Pronouns are often used to take the place of a noun, to avoid repeating the noun. For example, instead of saying 
it is easier to say 

When a pronoun replaces a noun, the noun is called the antecedent. For example, in the sentence: "The dog that was walking down the street", the relative pronoun is the word that referring back to the antecedent, the word 'dog'. In the sentence "The spy who loved me", the relative pronoun is the word 'who' and its antecedent is the word 'spy'.

Pronouns are different from common nouns because pronouns normally do not come after "article"s or other "determiner"s. For example, people do not say "the it". Pronouns rarely come after adjectives. They are also different because many of them change depending on how they are used. For example, "we" is a 'subject' in grammar, but the word changes to "us" when used as an object.

Pronouns are the same as nouns because they both change for number (singular & plural), case (subject, object, possessive, etc.), and gender (male, female, animate, inanimate, etc.) Nouns and pronouns can be used in almost all the same places in sentences, and they name the same kinds of things: people, objects, etc. Even though they can not normally come after determiners, or adjectives, neither can proper nouns.

There are different kinds of pronouns: personal, reciprocal, interrogative, and relative.
This table shows all the personal pronouns in English that are commonly used today.

A subject pronoun can replace a noun that is the subject of a sentence. Refer to the table above; the subject pronouns are: I, You, He, She, It, We, They. An object pronoun can replace a noun that is the object of a sentence. A possessive pronoun shows who or what a noun belongs to. 

Another type of personal pronoun is called the 'reflexive pronoun'. Reflexive pronouns are the words ending in '-self' or '-selves', such as: "myself, itself, themselves". One of the primary functions of reflexive pronouns is for situations in which a single agent is both the doer of the action and the receiver of the action. For example, if I cut my finger, we don't typically say "I cut me." in English; we use the reflexive pronoun and say "I cut myself." 

"It" and its other forms "its", and "itself" only refer to objects, not people. "They" and its other forms "them", "their", and "theirs" can be used as a singular, for a person whose gender is unknown at the time, or for a person who does not identify with either the "she/her" or "he/him" pronouns. For example: "The patient will be told how much "they" will be required to pay." 

Adverb

An adverb is a word used to tell more about a verb, and it almost always answers the questions "how?", "when?", "where?", "how often?", and "in what way?". Words like "slowly", "loudly", "carefully", "quickly", "quietly" or "sadly" are all adverbs. Adverbs usually, but not always, end in "-ly".

Examples of adverbs in a sentence (with the adverb in italics):

An adverb can also modify (describe) an adjective or another adverb

Examples:

In the first two examples the word 'well' is an adverb. In the last example, it is an adjective. This is one example in which the same word can be both an adjective and an adverb but not in the same sentence. 

As a rule, the same word can play different roles but not in the same sentence. It all depends on what the word is doing in the sentence. It could be a noun, an adjective, an adverb, a verb, etc. Example: take the word 'cool'. In the sentence, "he walks cool", the word 'cool' is an adverb. In the sentence, "cool the hot dish", the word 'cool' is a verb. In the sentence, "it is a cool evening", the word 'cool' is an adjective. In the first example, "he walks cool", the word 'cool' really means 'coolly' as in "play it cool" (do not get excited; be calm).

Most adverbs are formed by adding ly to the end of an adjective. To see 100 adjectives used in Basic English, click here ---> : adjective

Sunday

Sunday is one of the seven days of the week. It is part of the weekend, along with Saturday. Sunday is the Sabbath or day of worship for most Christians (for example, Easter is celebrated on Sunday). Sunday is the beginning of the week in the United States, but is the end of the week in the United Kingdom.

Ottawa

Ottawa is the capital of Canada and is part of the province of Ontario. It is south of the Ottawa River. In 2004, there were about 808,391 people in the city. The region has about 1,146,790 people. The mayor of the city today (since November 2022) is Mark Sutcliffe. Ottawa is in the Ottawa Valley on the border with the province of Quebec which is divided by the Ottawa River. Ottawa is the fourth largest city in Canada and the second largest city in Ontario (after Toronto). Ottawa is the only officially bilingual city in Canada, where the English language and the French language are official languages and have equal status. Every official sign in the city is bilingual. The reason for this bilingual status, is not only because Ottawa borders the French-speaking province of Quebec, the city itself has a large French-speaking minority.

When people talk about Ottawa, they are sometimes using the name as an eponym meaning the highest government in Canada, and not its local government or the city.

The cities of Ottawa, Kanata, Nepean, Gloucester and Vanier and the villages of Manotick and Rockcliffe Park joined in the year 2000 to form the new city of Ottawa. Ottawa also includes Orléans, which joined at that same time.

The city began with the name Bytown and became the city of Ottawa in 1855. The Rideau Canal ends in Ottawa.

Ottawa has many museums, many buildings for the government of Canada and many parks. There is a market area downtown.

There are many festivals during the year including Winterlude in February, The Tulip Festival in May, and BluesFest in the summer. There is also a large celebration on July 1st for Canada Day.

The Ottawa Senators of the National Hockey League (NHL) play ice hockey in an arena called Canadian Tire Centre. The Ottawa Redblacks of the Canadian Football League (CFL) also play in the city.

Ottawa has a hot-summer humid continental climate (Köppen climate classification: "Dfa").
The average yearly rain and snow in Ottawa is 943 millimetres.

2017 was a record year in Ottawa because there was rain and snow of 1,213 millimetres during the first ten months of the year. The old record was in 1972, when the rain and snow was 1,174 millimetres.

News agency

A news agency is a kind of company. It supplies information to newspapers, radio and television.

In the United Kingdom and some other countries a news agency or newsagent is a shop which sells newspapers, magazines and cigarettes.

Although there are many news agencies around the world, three global news agencies, Agence France-Presse (AFP), Associated Press (AP), and Reuters have offices in most countries of the world, cover all areas of information, and provide the majority of international news printed by the world's newspapers.


Mudguard

A mudguard, fender or wing is a part covering the wheels of a vehicle to stop it from throwing off mud, water or objects from the road. It protects people and property from dirtiness, dampness, and damage. 

Mudguards protect in several ways:

Para rubber tree

A Para rubber tree (or simply, rubber tree) is the tree which naturally produces rubber. It is native to tropical areas from South America, in the Amazon (Brazil), but was spread by European farmers to the Far East.

Para Rubber trees belong to the Euphorbiaceae family. In the wild they may reach heights of 100 to 125 ft (30-38 m) with large cylindrical trunks with or without buttresses. Crop trees reach a width of about 20 in. (50 cm), usually with a short bole, and with a sloped taper. 

Most rubber plantations are in South Asia and Southeast Asia. When trees reach 5-6 years old, they are harvested. Their trunks are cut just deep enough to tap the vessels without harming the tree's growth, and the sap is collected in small buckets. This process is known as rubber tapping. Older trees produce more latex, but they stop producing it after 30-40 years. It was first collected in para district of brazil. Sri henry Wickham brought the seeds of para rubber from Brazil to India and Sri Lanka through the kew botanical garden in 1876. At first, the plantation was done in Malayasia and Sri Lanka and later in Java, Sumatra, India and parts of Indonesia. 

Safety curtain

A safety curtain is a curtain in theatre at the front of the stage. It is made of material that will not burn. The safety curtain may be lowered during the intermission and after the performance. A safety curtain is there in case there is a fire on stage. It will stop the fire from spreading to the auditorium where the audience sits.

Safety lamp

A safety lamp is a miner's lamp with a covered flame that used to be used in coal mines.

The first safety lamp was invented by William Reid Clanny. It used bellows and water to separate gasses. Later, two newer designs were invented. One newer design was the Geordie lamp, made by George Stephenson, and the other was the Davy lamp, made by Sir Humphry Davy. In 1815, Davy discovered that if a flame was in a lamp, it would not ignite the flammable gases in mines. 

Coal mines are dangerous because of flammable gasses like methane that can accumulate (gather together). A lamp with a naked (exposed) flame might make these flammable gasses catch fire, causing an explosion, which could kill people. The safety lamp prevents the hot flame of the lamp touching the flammable gasses, reducing the chance of an explosion.

Christmas stocking

A Christmas stocking is a long sock hung by a fireplace or bed on Christmas Eve. Christmas presents are put into it for children. It came from an old legend. Stockings are now a European Christmas tradition.

List of football clubs in Austria

These are the Austrian football teams and the leagues they played in for the 2023/24 season.


The champion of the league promotes to the Austrian Bundesliga.
DSV Leoben from Styria

The Regionalliga is divided into three sections.




