Xenon


Xenon is a non-metal chemical element. It has the chemical symbol Xe and atomic number 54. It is one of the few elements that are a gas at the standard temperature and pressure.

Sir William Ramsay and M. W. Travers discovered this element in 1898. The element's name came from the Greek word "xenos", which means 'stranger'.

Xenon belongs to the group of the noble gases. Noble gases are very unreactive. However, in 1962, chemists have found that xenon can react with fluorine under special conditions, such as high pressure and high temperature. It is not known why xenon behaves differently under these circumstances. There are also some compounds with oxygen. The gas is not very reactive, because if fulfills the octet rule. This means that a lot of energy is needed to remove an electron from xenon. This activation energy for xenon is 1172 kJ/mol. To remove a second electron from xenon, an energy of 2046.4 kJ/mol is needed.

Known oxidation states of xenon are 0, +1, +2, +4, +6 and +8. However, the most stable form is pure xenon, or the xenon's oxidation state of 0. Xenon has 8 stable isotopes and more than 30 unstable isotopes.

Xenon gas is used in electron tubes, bactericidal lamps, trobe lamps, and lamps used to excite ruby lasers.
It has the atomic mass of 131.294 and is the 5th inert gas in the inner gas group.

Xenon is also a trace gas in the atmosphere, occurring at 87 ±1 nL/L (parts per billion) or approximately 1 in 11.5 million. It is also emitted from some mineral springs.


Kuala Lumpur

Kuala Lumpur () is the capital city and the largest city of Malaysia and a Federal Territory. After Putrajaya was constructed in the late 1990s, the administrative capital has been moved there. Kuala Lumpur has one of the tallest buildings in the world, the Petronas Twin Towers.

Kuala Lumpur has a tropical rainforest climate ("Af" in the Koeppen climate classification).

The annual range of temperature in Kuala Lumpur is small, only 1°C. There is no distinct seasonal difference in temperature in the city. Kuala Lumpur is hot throughout the year. The annual mean temperature are 26.5 °C (79.7 °F).

The annual rainfall in Kuala Lumpur is high (2393mm). The rainfall distribution is even in the city, with heavy rainfall all the year. In April and November, the monthly rainfall is slightly higher.

Since Kuala Lumpur became a Federal Territory of Malaysia on February 1, 1972, the city has been led by seven mayors. They are:



