Middle East


The Middle East is a large area of land in the eastern hemisphere. The lands of the Arabian Peninsula and some of the lands of the eastern Mediterranean are part of the Middle East. The Middle East's population is mostly Muslim. The name of the Middle East comes from its position to the east of Europe and to the west of the Far East.

It is normal for the modern countries of Arabia (Saudi Arabia, Oman, Yemen, Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, and the United Arab Emirates) to be counted with the modern countries of Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, and Palestine (the State of Palestine and Israel) as part of the Middle East.

The name "Middle East" does not always have the same meaning, and the size of the area is not always the same. When the name Middle East started to be common, it was the name for the lands in between the Near East and the Far East. The Indian subcontinent was part of the Middle East at that time. Now, parts of south-west Asia and northern Africa can count as the Middle East. The land between Egypt and Iran is a common definition. Many countries in the Middle East today are also part of the Near East. Sometimes, people name countries that are far away from these countries as countries in the Middle East. These countries can be in North Africa (like Morocco) and the Indian subcontinent (like Pakistan). This area also has the name Greater Middle East.

Many ancient civilizations began in the Fertile Crescent in the Middle East. These were Sumer, Babylonia and Assyria in the area called Mesopotamia. The Abrahamic religions that believe in one God also started in the Middle East. (Judaism and Christianity began in ancient Palestine and Islam began in Arabia.) Today, the Middle East is the homeland of Arabs, Turks, Persians, Kurds, and Jews, among many other ethnic groups. Islam is the most common religion in the Middle East. Islam came to most of the Middle East's lands in the 7th century AD, during the first Muslim conquests of the Sasanian Empire and parts of the Byzantine Empire.

Today, the Middle East is very important because much of the petroleum that other countries use comes from here. There are also many arguments and wars, such as the conflict between Sunni and Shia, the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, and the Syrian civil war.


Warsaw

Warsaw (In Polish: "Warszawa") is the capital of Poland in Masovian Voivodeship. It is also the biggest city in that country. There are about 2,000,000 people living there (1,726,581 as of 31 March 2014). People from Warsaw are called "Varsovians".

There are other names for Warsaw. For example, (Latin, Spanish) and "Varsóvia" (Portuguese), (French), (Italian), (German, Dutch), /"Varshe" (Yiddish), (Lithuanian), (Hungarian) and "Varšava" (Czech)

Warsaw is near the middle of Poland on both sides of the Vistula river, and about 350 km (225 miles) from the Baltic Sea. It is about 100 m (325 ft) above sea level. Warsaw has a humid continental climate ("Dfb" in the Koeppen climate classification).

Warsaw is home to four universities and 62 colleges, and many theatres and art galleries.

People began living here in the 13th century. By the 15th century, Warsaw had grown enough to be called a city. It became the capital of Poland in 1596.

The city was destroyed several times in its history, but every time it was rebuilt. The most important of these times was during the Second World War. Poland had been occupied by Germany between 1939 and 1944. On 1 August 1944, the people of Warsaw started fighting to free their city.

There are lot of attractions in the capital of Poland. The most famous monument of Warsaw is the Palace of Culture and Science. There is a palace in Wilanów. The king of Poland John III Sobieski lived there. Many people like going to the Museum of Warsaw Uprising. The uprising started in 1944 during World War II

-Athens, Greece

-Chicago, USA

- Rio de Janerio, Brazil

- The Hague, The Netherlands


Hindu–Arabic numeral system

The Hindu–Arabic numeral system, sometimes known as Arabic number system, is the system of Latin-script numbers used by almost all the world today. It is a positional notation system. This system has ten basic symbols, they are 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9. It represents numbers in the decimal numeral system. The Hindu–Arabic numeral system was first developed by the Hindu and Arabs. Later in the 16th century in Germany, it was changed and introduced to the rest of the western world by Albrecht Dürer. The Hindu–Arabic numeral system is one of the few numeral systems that use a place value system. This system is now commonly used all over the world.

They originated in India in the 6th or 7th century and were introduced to Europe through the writings of Middle Eastern mathematicians, especially al-Khwarizmi and al-Kindi, about the 12th century. They are very different from previous methods of counting, such as the abacus, and paved the way for the development of algebra. In the past many other systems were used. Fibonacci popularized the Hindu–Arabic numeral system to the western world.

Point (geometry)

A point is a position in space which has no size, but which does have position.

In geometry, a point has no size, but has a position. This means it has no volume, area or length. We usually represent a point by a small cross 'X' or by a small dot (a small, round shape). Points are always labelled by capital letters (A, B, C...X, Y, Z). It is one of the most fundamental but undefined terms in geometry.

In general, two points can be:
and are always:

Three points can be:
and are always:

Four points can be: 


Line

A line is the path of one point that is moving. A line is a type of geometric figure. A line has length, but no width. A line is made up of an endless number of points.

A line can be straight or curved. In geometry, the word "line" means a "straight line". A straight line is the shortest distance between two points. A straight line is traced by a point moving in a direction that does not change.

A "curved line" is sometimes called a curve. The edge of a circle is not straight. It is an example of a curve.

A "line segment" is part of a line. Here are examples of straight line segments:

Lines can get their names from any two points on the line. For example, if a line contains two different points, named formula_1 and formula_2, then the line can be called either formula_3, or formula_4.

Sometimes, lines are named with just one symbol. A letter such as formula_5 might be used.

Two lines can be:


Plane (mathematics)

A plane is a perfectly flat surface extending in all directions. It can be thought of as the ceiling of a room, only extended into all directions infinitely. A plane has two dimensions: length and width. All planes are flat surfaces. If a surface is not flat, it is called a "curved surface". 

The tool "plane" can be used to create a flat, level surface like the mathematical plane—hence the name.

In geometry, a plane is made up of an infinite number of lines (or points). It has no depth. It is absolutely flat and infinitely large.

A "plane figure" is part of a plane. It is named by the capital letters (such as A, B, C, ...X, Y, Z) that are put at its corners. Sometimes, a single capital pi formula_1 is also used to refer to a plane. A plane can also be named after three points that are not all on the same line.

In general, two planes can be:

In mathematics, a plane is a fundamental two-dimensional object. Intuitively, it looks like a flat infinite sheet of paper. There are several definitions of the plane. They are equivalent in the sense of Euclidean geometry, but they can be extended in different ways to define objects in other areas of mathematics. The only two-dimensional figure in our three-dimensional world is a shadow.

In some areas of mathematics, such as plane geometry or 2D computer graphics, the whole space in which the work is carried out is a single plane. In such situations, the definite article is used: "the plane". Many fundamental tasks in geometry, trigonometry and graphing are performed in the two dimensional space, or in other words, in the plane.

A plane is a surface such that, given any three distinct points on the surface, the surface also contains all of the straight lines that pass through any two of them.
One can introduce a Cartesian coordinate system on a given plane in order to label every point on it with a unique ordered pair, which is composed of two numbers and is the coordinate of the point.

Within any Euclidean space, a plane is uniquely determined by any of the following combinations:




