The following is a summary of the main cloud types arranged by how high they form:


High clouds form from in cold places, in mild regions and in the very hot tropics. They are too high and thin to produce rain or snow.

High-level clouds include:


Middle clouds usually form at in colder areas. However, they may form as high as in the tropics where it's very warm all year. Middle clouds are usually made of water droplets but may also have some ice crystals. They occasionally produce rain or snow that usually evaporates before reaching the ground.

Medium-level clouds include:


Low-level clouds are usually seen from near ground level to as high as . Low clouds are usually made of water droplets and may occasionally produce very light rain, drizzle, or snow.

Low-level clouds include:

When very low stratus cloud touches the ground, it is called fog.

These are clouds of medium thickness that can form anywhere from near ground level to as high as . Medium-level cumulus does not have "alto" added to its name. The tops of these clouds are usually not much higher than . Vertical clouds often create rain and snow. They are made mostly of water droplets, but when they push up through cold higher levels they may also have ice crystals.

Moderate-vertical clouds include:


These clouds are very tall with tops usually higher than . They can create heavy rain and snow showers. Cumulonimbus, the biggest clouds of all, can also produce thunderstorms. These clouds are mostly made of water droplets, but the tops of very large cumulonimbus clouds are often made mostly of ice crystals.

Towering-vertical clouds include:


In the Bible, clouds are often a sign of God's presence.


Water cycle

The water cycle (or hydrological cycle) is the cycle that water goes through on Earth.

Water is essential for life as we know it. It is present throughout the Solar System, and was part of the Earth from its formation. The source of the water was the same as the source of the Earth's rock: the cloud particles which condensed in the origin of the Solar System.

This is the process that water starts and ends in the water cycle.



