Water vapor


Water vapor is water that is in the form of a vapor, or gas. It is a part of the water cycle. When liquid water is heated to boiling point, 100 degrees Celsius (212 F), it turns into vapor. Water vapor can also be produced directly from ice; this is called sublimation. Steam is water vapor, but clouds are liquid water. The amount of water vapor in air is called humidity and it affects weather conditions. In the cold, breathing out causes the water vapor in the breath to freeze.

Water vapor weighs less than air, thus slightly reduces the lift produced by an aircraft wing.

Water vapour is transparent. The small droplets that look white like mist are actually liquid.

Water vapour is a big cause of the greenhouse effect.

Water vapor is invisible but when it condenses it makes visible water.

Solid

Solid is one of the four common states of matter. The molecules in solids are closely bound together, so they can only vibrate. This means solids have a definite shape that only changes when a force is applied. This is different to liquids and gases which move randomly, a process called flow. 

Solids can resist forces applied to their surface. 

When a solid becomes a liquid, this is called melting. Liquids become solid by freezing. Some solids, like dry ice, can turn into gas without turning liquid first. This is called sublimation.

The forces between the atoms in a solid can take many forms. For example, a crystal of sodium chloride (common salt) is made up of ionic sodium and chlorine, which are held together by ionic bonds. In diamond or silicon, the atoms share electrons and make covalent bonds. In metals, electrons are shared in metallic bonding. Some solids, like most organic compounds, are held together with "van der Waals forces" coming from the polarization of the electronic charge cloud on each molecule. The dissimilarities between the types of solid come from the differences between their bonding.

Most metals are strong, dense, and good conductors of electricity and heat. The mass of the elements in the periodic table, those to the left of a diagonal line drawn from boron to polonium, are metals. Mixtures of two or more elements in which the big component is a metal are known as alloys.

People have been using metals for many purposes since prehistoric times.
The strength and relialbility of metals has led to their widespread use in making of buildings and other things, as well as in most vehicles, many tools, pipes, road signs and railroad tracks. Iron and aluminium are the two most commonly used metals. They are also the most common metals in the Earth's crust. Iron is most commonly used in the form of an alloy, steel, which has up to 2.1% carbon, making it much harder than pure iron.

Since metals are good conductors of electricity, they are valuable in electrical tools and for carrying an electric current over long distances with little energy loss. Because of this, electrical power grids rely on metal cables to get electricity. Home electrical systems, for example, are wired with copper for its good conducting uses. The high thermal conductivity of most metals also makes them useful for stovetop cooking utensils.

Minerals are natural solids formed through many geological processes and having a crystal structure with uniform physical things throughout..


Evaporation

Evaporation is when a liquid becomes a gas without forming bubbles inside the liquid volume. If bubbles are formed we are talking instead about "boiling".

For example, water left in a bowl will slowly disappear. The water evaporates into water vapor, the gas phase of water. The water vapor mixes with the air.

The opposite of evaporation is condensation.

When the molecules in a liquid are heated, they move faster. This makes them full of energy and so the particles collide with each other, and eventually they become so far apart that they become a gas.

During evaporation only the molecules near the liquid surface are changing from liquid to vapor. During boiling the molecules inside the volume of the liquid are also changing to vapor. For this reason during evaporation no bubbles are formed, instead they are formed during boiling.

Evaporation can happen at any temperature, while boiling happens only at a specified temperature called the "boiling point". Evaporation happens slowly, but boiling happens quickly.

Some liquids evaporate more quickly than others. There are many factors that affect the evaporation rate.

The rate of evaporation depends on the liquid's exposed surface area (faster when increased), the humidity of surroundings (slower when increased), the presence of wind (faster when increased) and the temperature (faster when increased).

Liquid with high boiling points (those that boil at very high temperatures) tend to evaporate more slowly than those with lower boiling temperatures.

Evaporation is a very essential part of the water cycle.


Contract

A contract is an agreement or promise that the law can enforce. The law will enforce some agreements but not others. For example, in most places, if a parent promises to take a child to get ice cream, the law will not enforce that promise as a legal contract.

The legal rules about which promises are enforced by the law can be different in different places (or jurisdictions), but a contract is usually enforced only if it is made by people or groups who want it to be enforced and who know what they are doing.

Sometimes, a contract is written down and signed by the people agreeing to it, but it does not always need to be. People usually sign a contract when something important or costly is being done. For example, when people take a job, they will sometimes sign a contract with their employers. The contract will show what the person must do as part of his job, how much they will be paid, and so on. The person and the employer will sign the contract, and it will become a legal promise.

If someone breaks a contract, another person might sue him or her. In a lawsuit about a contract, the court will look at the contract, listen to what the people who made the contract say about it, and then make a decision about what the contract means.


Face

The face is a part of the body at the front of the head. 

It is the part of us that others interact with. On the face are organs of sight, smell, hearing. Especially in a four-legged animal, the face is the part which goes first into the world, and that is why the sense organs and the mouth are there.

In humans, the face includes the hair, forehead, eyebrow, eyelash, eyes, nose, ears, cheeks, mouth, lips, teeth, skin, and chin.

Kolkata

Kolkata (spelled Calcutta before 1 January 2001) is the capital city of the Indian state of West Bengal. It is the second largest city in India after Mumbai. It is on the east bank of the River Hooghly. When it is called Calcutta, it includes the suburbs. This makes it the third largest city of India. It has 4,500,000 (4.5 million) people living in it. This also makes it the world's 8th largest metropolitan area as defined by the United Nations. Kolkata served as the capital of India during the British Raj until 1911. Kolkata was once the center of industry and education. However, it has witnessed political violence and economic problems since 1954. Since 2000, Kolkata has grown due to economic growth. Like other metropolitan cities in India, Kolkata struggles with poverty, pollution and traffic congestion.

The discovery of the nearby Chandraketugarh, an archaeological site has proved that people have lived there for over two millennia. The history of Kolkata begins when the English East India Company arrived in 1690. Job Charnock, an administrator with the company is traditionally known as the founder of this city. However some academics say that Charnock is not the city's founder.

At that time Kolkata, ruled by the Nawab of Bengal Siraj-Ud-Daulah, had three villages. They were Kalikata, Govindapur and Sutanuti. The British in the late 17th century wanted to build a fort near Govindapur. This was to become more powerful than Dutch, the Portuguese, and the French. In 1702, the British completed the construction of old Fort William, which was used to station its troops and as a regional base. Calcutta was declared a Presidency City, and later became the headquarters of the Bengal Presidency. When regular fights with French forces started, in 1756 the British began to upgrade their fortifications. When this was protested, the Nawab of Bengal Siraj-Ud-Daulah attacked and captured Fort William. This led to the infamous Black Hole incident. A force of Company sepoys and British troops led by Robert Clive recaptured the city the next year. Calcutta became the capital of British India in 1772. However, the capital shifted to the hilly town of Shimla during the summer months every year, starting from the year 1864. Richard Wellesley, the Governor General between 1797 and 1805, helped in the growth of the city and its public architecture. This led to the description of Calcutta as "The City of Palaces". The city was a centre of the British East India Company's opium trade during the 18th and 19th century; locally produced opium was sold at auction in Kolkata, to be shipped to China.

Pencil

A pencil is a kind of writing equipment that is also used to draw, usually on paper. Most pencil cores are made of graphite powder mixed with a clay binder. So, a pencil is usually made with a piece of graphite mixed with clay that has a wood case around it. The shape is usually a hexagonal prism but some pencils are square or cylinder.

Colored pencils are a kind that do not use greyish silver graphite. Instead, the core is colorful. Colored pencils or crayons are usually meant for drawing rather than writing.

The important difference between pens and pencils is that the tip of a pencil is made of solid graphite (or other material) which is rubbed off onto the paper. A pen has a tip, usually made of metal, with liquid ink coming out and onto the paper. Writing with a pen can smudge when it is still wet. Writing from a pencil can be erased, but writing from a pen usually cannot, unless it uses a special type of ink and eraser.

 An early writing tool was the reed pen used by ancient Egyptians, who wrote with ink on sheets of papyrus paper. 

Another early writing instrument was the stylus, which was a thin stick of wood or metal, often lead. It was used for scratching onto black wax that covered white wood, a method used by the Romans. The word "pencil" comes from the Latin word which means "little tail". It is an invention of the 16th century in England.

Some time before 1565 (it may have been as early as 1500), a large deposit of graphite was found in Borrowdale, Cumbria. The locals found that it was very useful for marking sheep. This deposit of graphite was extremely pure and solid, and it could easily be sawn into sticks. This is still the only large scale deposit of graphite ever found in this solid form. Chemistry was in its early stages and the substance was thought to be a form of lead. Consequently, it was called "plumbago" (Latin for "lead ore"). The black core of pencils is still referred to as "lead", even though it never had the element lead. 

The value of graphite was soon realized, mainly because it could be used to line the moulds for cannonballs. The mines were taken over by the Crown and guarded. When enough stocks of graphite had been added up, the mines were flooded to prevent theft until more was needed. Graphite had to be sneakily moved out for use in pencils. Because graphite is soft, it requires some form of holder. Graphite sticks were at first wrapped in string or in sheepskin for stability. The news of the usefulness of these early pencils spread far and wide, attracting the attention of artists all over the known world. 

England continued to have a monopoly on the production of pencils until a method of reconstituting the graphite powder was found. The distinctively square English pencils continued to be made with sticks cut from natural graphite into the 1860s. The town of Keswick, near the original findings of block graphite, has a pencil museum.

The first attempt to manufacture graphite sticks from powdered graphite was in Nuremberg, Germany, in 1662. It used a mixture of graphite, sulphur, and antimony. 

Residual graphite from a pencil stick is not poisonous, and graphite is harmless if consumed.

The Italians first thought of wooden holders. In 1560, an Italian couple named Simonio and Lyndiana Bernacotti created the first blueprints for the modern carpentry pencil to mark their carpentry pieces. Their version was instead a flat, oval, more compact type of pencil. They did this at first by hollowing out a stick of juniper wood. Shortly thereafter, a superior technique was discovered: two wooden halves were carved, a graphite stick inserted, and the two halves then glued together–essentially the same method in use to this day. 

English and German pencils were not available to the French during the Napoleonic Wars. France was under naval blockade imposed by Great Britain and could not import the pure graphite sticks from the British Grey Knotts mines – the only known source in the world for solid graphite. France was also unable to import the inferior German graphite pencil substitute. It took the efforts of an officer in Napoleon's army to change this. In 1795, Nicholas Jacques Conté discovered a method of mixing powdered graphite with clay and forming the mixture into rods that were then fired in a kiln. By varying the ratio of graphite to clay, the hardness of the graphite rod could also be varied. This method of manufacture, which had been earlier discovered by the Austrian Joseph Hardtmuth of Koh-I-Noor in 1790, remains in use. 

In England, pencils continued to be made from whole sawn graphite. Henry Bessemer's first successful invention (1838) was a method of compressing graphite powder into solid graphite thus allowing the waste from sawing to be reused. 
American colonists imported pencils from Europe until after the American Revolution. Benjamin Franklin advertised pencils for sale in his "Pennsylvania Gazette" in 1729, and George Washington used a three-inch pencil when he surveyed the Ohio Territory in 1762. It is said that William Munroe, a cabinetmaker in Concord, Massachusetts, made the first American wood pencils in 1812. This was not the only pencil-making occurring in Concord. Henry David Thoreau discovered how to make a good pencil out of inferior graphite using clay as the binder; this invention was prompted by his father's pencil factory in Concord, which employed graphite found in New Hampshire in 1821 by Charles Dunbar.

On 30 March 1858, Hymen Lipman received the first patent for attaching an eraser to the end of a pencil. In 1862 Lipman sold his patent to Joseph Reckendorfer for $100,000, who went to sue the pencil manufacturer Faber-Castell for infringement. In 1875, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled against Reckendorfer declaring the patent invalid.

The metal band used to mate the eraser with pencil is called a ferrule.

The first attempt to manufacture graphite sticks from powdered graphite was in Nuremberg, Germany in 1662. They used a mixture of graphite, sulfur and antimony. Though usable, they were not as good as the English pencils.

English and German pencils were not available to the French during the Napoleonic wars. It took the efforts of an officer in Napoleon's army to change this. In 1795 Nicholas Jacques Conté discovered a method of mixing powdered graphite with clay and forming the mixture into rods which were then fired in a kiln. By varying the ratio of graphite to clay, the hardness of the graphite rod could also be varied (the more clay, the harder the pencil, and the lighter the color of the mark). This method of making pencils is still used today.

Today, pencils are made industrially by mixing finely ground graphite and clay powders, adding water, forming long spaghetti-like strings, and firing them in a kiln. The resulting strings are dipped in oil or molten wax which seeps into the tiny holes of the material, resulting in smoother writing. A juniper or incense-cedar plank with several long parallel grooves is cut to make something called a slate, and the graphite/clay strings are inserted into the grooves. Another grooved plank is glued on top, and the whole thing is then cut into individual pencils, which are then varnished or painted.

A few common brands of colored pencils (among other items) are Crayola, RoseArt, Derwent, Faber Castell, Caran d'ache, and Cra-Z-Art.

Logic

Logic is the study of reasoning. The rules of logic let philosophers make a guess about logical deductions about the world. Logic helps people decide whether something can be true or false. 

Logic is often written in syllogisms, which are one type of logical proof. A syllogism is made from a collection of statements used to logically prove the final statement, called the conclusion. One popular example of a logical syllogism was written by the Classical Greek philosopher Aristotle:


The conclusion is the final statement. This syllogism connects the first two statements to make a logical deduction: Socrates is mortal.

The syllogism is made from three logical statements or propositions. These statements are short sentences describing a small step in a logical argument. The small statements make up the argument, the same way atoms make up molecules. When logic is correct, the statements are said to "follow" from each other. 

Statements have a truth value, meaning they can be proved to be true "or" false, but not both. Illogical statements or mistakes in logic are called logical fallacies.

Logical statements can be written in a special type of short hand writing, which includes the symbols of the symbolic logic. These symbols are used to describe logical reasoning in an abstract way. For example:


Here is the previous syllogism written in symbolic logic.

By replacing the English words with letters, one can make the syllogism even simpler. 

Similar to mathematical symbols for operations like addition and subtraction, symbolic logic separates abstract logic from the English-language meaning of the original statements. With these abstract symbols, people can study pure logic without the use of a specific written language.

The syllogism is now written in the most abstract and simple way possible. Any distracting elements, such as English language words, have been removed. Anyone who understands logical symbolism can understand this argument.

A logical proof is a list of statements put in a specific order to prove a logical point. Each statement in the proof is either an assumption made for the sake of argument, or has been proven to follow from earlier statements in the proof. All proofs must start with some assumptions, such as "men exist" in the above syllogism. A proof shows that one statement, the conclusion, follows from the starting assumptions. With a proof, we can prove that "Aristotle is mortal" logically follows from "Aristotle is a man" and "All men are mortal".

Some statements are always true. That kind of statement is called tautology"." One popular classical tautology, credited to the philosopher Parmenides of Elea, says "That which is, is. That which is not, is not." This essentially means that true statements are true and false statements are false. Due to their simple nature, tautologies may not always be helpful in building logical arguments. 

A tautology is represented in symbolic logic as formula_9, meaning "Either "a" or not "a"." Assuming that there are no unmentioned possibilities, this covers every possible case. Another symbol used to represent a tautology is formula_10.

Because logic is a tool used to think more rationally, it can be used in countless ways. Symbolic logic is employed far and wide, from philosophical treatises to complicated mathematical equations. Computers use the rules of logic to run algorithms, which let computer programs make decisions based on data. 

Logic is critical to pure mathematics, statistics, and data analysis. Logic is also studied in philosophy. People who study math create proofs that use logical rules to show that mathematical theorems are correct. There is an area of mathematics called mathematical logic that studies logic using mathematics.


Communism

Communism is an idea in politics consisting of economical equality that wants a world without different social class groups. Communists believe these differences are extremely bad behaviour by the powerful. They say that things like factories, tools and farms (the relations of production) are owned by the bourgeoisie, which gives them unfair power over workers. Communists want these things to be owned by the workers instead of the bosses. They believe this will bring about the end of all money and private property.

This is the opposite to capitalism where there is money, and a state and class structure. In capitalism, there is a working class (people who don't own the means of production, also called the proletariat) and the owning class (people who own the means of production, sometimes called the ruling class or the bourgeoisie).

Communist thinkers believe a communist world can happen if the working class take away the power of the bourgeoisie and start to control the means of production.

Countries that officially follow forms of communism include Vietnam, China, Cuba and Laos, which are Marxist–Leninist, and North Korea, which follows Juche.

The most famous communist thinkers were Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels; other prominent thinkers include Vladimir Lenin, Joseph Stalin, Leon Trotsky, and Mao Zedong.

In 1848, Karl H. Marx and Friedrich Engels wrote "The Communist Manifesto". It was a short book with the basic ideas of communism. Most socialists and communists today still use this book to help them better and more accurately understand politics and economics. Many non-communists read it too, even if they do not agree with everything in it.

Karl Marx said that for society to change into a communist way of living, there would have to be a period of change. During this period, the workers would govern society. This is called a dictatorship of the proletariat. Marx was very interested in the Paris Commune of 1870, when the workers of Paris ran the city after the Prussian Army defeated the French Army. He thought that this practical experience was more important than the theoretical views of the various radical groups.

Many groups and individuals liked Marx's ideas. By the beginning of the twentieth century, there was a worldwide socialist movement called Social Democracy. It was influenced by his ideas. They said that the workers in different countries had more in common with each other than the workers had in common with the bosses within their own countries. In 1917, Vladimir Lenin and Leon Trotsky led a Russian group called the Bolsheviks in the October Revolution. They got rid of the temporary government of Russia, which was formed after the February Revolution against the Tsar (Emperor). They established the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, also called the Soviet Union.

The Soviet Union was the first country claiming to have established a workers' state. 

During the 20th century, many people tried to establish workers' states. In the late 1940s, China also had a revolution and created a new government with Mao Zedong as its leader. In 1959, the island of Cuba had a revolution and created a new government with Fidel Castro as its leader. At one time, there were many such countries, and it seemed as though communism would overtake capitalism. However, communist party governments didn't use democracy. Because of this, the governments became separated from the people, making communism difficult. This also led to disagreements and splits between countries.
By the 1960s, one third of the world had overthrown capitalism and were trying to build communism. Most of these countries followed the model of the Soviet Union. Some followed the model of China. The other two thirds of the world still lived in capitalism, and this led to a worldwide divide between capitalist countries and communist countries. This was called the "Cold War" because it was not fought with weapons or armies, but competing ideas. However, this could have turned into a large war. During the 1980s, the United States and the Soviet Union were competing to have the biggest army and having the most dangerous weapons. This was called the "Arms Race". President Ronald Reagan called communist countries like the Soviet Union the "Evil Empire". 

Since 1989, when the Berlin Wall was torn down, most countries that used to be communist have returned to capitalism. Communism now has much less influence around the world. In 1991, the Soviet Union broke up. However, around a fifth of the world's people still live in states controlled by a communist party. Most of these people are in China. The other countries include Cuba, Vietnam, Laos, and North Korea. There are also communist movements in Latin America and South Africa.

Many people have written their own ideas about communism. Vladimir Lenin of Russia thought that there had to be a group of hard-working revolutionaries (called a vanguard) to lead a socialist revolution worldwide and create a communist society everywhere. Leon Trotsky, also from Russia, argued that socialism had to be international, and it was not important to make it happen first in Russia. He also did not like Joseph Stalin, who became the leader of the USSR after Lenin's death in 1924. Trotsky was made to leave the Soviet Union by Stalin in 1928, and then killed in 1940. This scared many people, and lots of communists argued about whether this was right and whose ideas should be followed.

Mao Zedong of China thought that other classes would be important to the revolution in China and other developing countries because the working classes in these countries were small. Mao's ideas on communism are usually called Maoism or Mao Zedong Thought. After Stalin's death in 1953, Mao saw himself as the leader of worldwide communism until he died in 1976. Today the Chinese government is still ruled by the Communist Party, but they actually have what is called a mixed economy. They have borrowed many things from capitalism. The government in China today does not follow Maoism. Some revolutionaries in other countries like India and Nepal still like his ideas and are trying to use them in their own countries.

The word "communism" is not a very specific description of left-wing political organizations. Many political parties calling themselves "communist" may actually be more reformist (supportive of reforms and slow change instead of revolution) than some parties calling themselves "socialists". Many communist parties in Latin America have lost many members because these parties do different things than what they promised once they get into power. In Chile, between 1970 and 1973, under the left-wing Coalition (groups of parties) of Popular Unity, led by Salvador Allende, the Communist Party of Chile was to the right of the Socialist Party of Chile. This means it was more reformist than the socialist party.

Many communist parties will use a reformist strategy. They say working-class people are not organized enough to make big changes to their societies. They put forward candidates that will be elected democratically. Once communists become elected to parliament or the Senate, then they will fight for the working class. This will allow working-class people to change their capitalist society into a socialist one.

The color red is a symbol of communism around the world. A red five-pointed star sometimes also stands for communism. The hammer and sickle is a well-known symbol of communism. It was on the flags of many communist countries, like the Soviet Union (see top of article). Some communists also like to use pictures of famous communists from history, such as Marx, Lenin, and Mao Zedong, as symbols of the whole philosophy of communism.

A song called "The Internationale" is the international song of communism. It has the same music everywhere, but the words to the song are translated into many languages. The Russian version was the national anthem of the Soviet Union from 1922 until 1944.

The sickle in the Soviet Union's flag shows the struggle of the peasants-farmers. The hammer in the flag represents the struggle for the workers. Both of them crossing shows their support for each other.

There is also a special kind of art and architecture found in many communist and former communist countries. Paintings done in the style of socialist realism are often done for propaganda to show a perfect version of a country's people and political leader. Art done in the socialist realism style, such as plays, movies, novels, and paintings show hard-working, happy, and well-fed factory workers and farmers. Movies, plays and novels in this style often tell stories about workers or soldiers who sacrifice themselves for the good of their country. Paintings often showed heroic portraits of the leader, or landscapes showing huge fields of wheat. Stalinist architecture was supposed to represent the power and glory of the state and its political leader. Some non-communists also enjoy this kind of art.


Resurrection

Resurrection means bringing someone back to life after they have died.

The idea of resurrection is found in writings of ancient polytheistic religions in the Middle East. Some Egyptian and Canaanite writings tell of gods being resurrected, such as Osiris and Baal.

In Greek mythology, many men and women were given eternal life by being resurrected from the dead. In their stories, some who came back to life as gods were Alcmene, Castor, Heracles, and Melicertes. But the Greek philosophers at that time did not believe in a physical rebirth.

Christians believe that Jesus Christ was resurrected. They also believe in resurrection for all people after they die. This is based on the Gospels and on Saint Paul's writings in the New Testament. The resurrection of Jesus is the Christian belief that he returned to life by a miracle. He died by crucifixion on Friday and rose from his tomb to new life on Sunday morning. This belief is celebrated at Easter.

The resurrection of Jesus Christ is written about by the evangelists in the New Testament. They are the writers of the four Gospels in the New Testament. Christians believe the resurrection is a central part of the Christian faith. Jesus died on the cross to save mankind. When he was resurrected, Jesus defeated death. He is alive forever and sitting at God's right hand on a throne. This gives Christians the hope of a new life after death. This is because his resurrection mirrors the future for all Christians after they die.

With Jesus Christ and with humans, the Bible shows that the resurrected body is changed from the original. This is because the human body, while alive, is weak and frail. But, the resurrected person lives for ever.

All four Gospels tell about Jesus being raised from the dead. They also write about three times that Jesus brings a dead person back to life. However, these are not a true resurrection. These people were restored to a normal physical life. They later died a normal death, but a resurrected body is no longer mortal.

In Islam, the Quran refers to a bodily resurrection of all those who have died.
This will be followed by a final time of trouble and eternal division of the righteous and wicked. Islamic apocalyptic literature describing Armageddon is often known as The Great Massacre or "ghaybah" in Shī'a Islam. The righteous are rewarded with the pleasures of Jannah (Paradise), while the unrighteous are punished in Hell.

According to Alcor, resurrection of people will be possible in the far future. They are using cryonics to preserve some legally dead people until the invention of the resurrection.

Monarchy

A monarchy is a kind of government where a monarch, a kind of hereditary ruler (someone who inherits their office), is the head of state. Monarchs usually rule until they die or pass down (when a monarch resigns it is called abdication). Most monarchies are hereditary, but some are elected. The most famous elected monarch is the Pope of the Roman Catholic Church. Some well known titles for monarchs are King, Queen, Emperor, Empress, Czar, Kaiser, Shah, Emir, Khan and Sultan.

In less formal societies, the leader was often chosen by fighting. That was the way of warrior societies like the Zulu. Kings of England and Scotland were sometimes decided by battle. Warfare has been very frequent between human societies. "Wars of succession" is the general term for warfare caused by two or more individuals claiming the right of successor to a dead or deposed monarch.

Many people who study government think a country should not have a monarchy. They argue that rulers ought to be elected, or that monarchs are often corrupt. Aristotle’s “Politics” compares the different forms of government which a state may have. He claims monarchy to be one of the worst regimes because one leader may be easily corrupted, even if they were selected as the most wise and deserving ruler of an entire group.

Many people in countries such as the UK want to keep their royal family as they have remained a traditional icon and source of income for the country. However, in the UK their influence in the rule of the country is very small, leaving government to the governing political party elected by the people. This is because in a constitutional monarchy the monarch has only the power of head of state.

Monarchy is one of the oldest kinds of government. Most historians agree that the first monarchies were tribes or small groups of people who decided to let a war-chief or other leader pass on their office to their children. This created a dynasty. Over time, the rules for deciding who got to become the next monarch became more complicated. Primogeniture is usually the oldest son or, in some countries, daughter, becomes the next monarch when the old one dies. Akkad and Sumer were the first recorded monarchies.

Kings and other kinds of monarchs have ruled for many thousands of years; for example, many kings are mentioned in the Bible and in ancient historical records. Three of the oldest countries with monarchs that still hold office are the United Kingdom, which has had the same British Royal Family for nearly 1,000 years, Denmark where the royal line has remained unbroken for almost 1,200 years, and Japan, which has records showing a line of Emperors dating back even farther.

Many monarchs today perform mostly the ceremonial jobs of a head of state, while the head of government, who is usually elected, passes and enforces laws. It is also very important in other parts of the country.

In an absolute monarchy the monarch is the only source of all laws. The monarch has total power to make any law just by deciding it. Any other institution in the country cannot make laws that affect the monarch, unless the monarch decides to allow it. Sometimes the monarch is also the head of the state religion and makes religious laws also. All land and property in the country can be taken or given away by the monarch at any time for any reason. The army and navy is under the personal control of the monarch and can be used for any purpose at any time. The monarch can also pick who gets to be the next monarch and can change the rules at any time. There is usually no elected government or Parliament, and if there is one, it has no real power. This kind of government is very rare today. The people do not have a lot of power in it.

Countries that are examples of an absolute monarchy are Vatican City, Brunei, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Oman and Swaziland.

A constitutional monarchy is a form of government that is usually a democracy and has a constitution, with the monarch as head of state. Either the monarch has to obey the laws like everyone else, or there are special laws that say what the monarch can and cannot do. The monarch usually can not decide their special laws on their own. There may be laws about whom the monarch's children can marry, for example, that are passed by the Parliament. For example, in the Netherlands, if a member of the royal family marries without the permission of Parliament, they cannot become king or queen themselves. The army and navy may swear an oath to the monarch, but the real control is given to the elected government. There are laws about property and the order of succession (who gets to be the next monarch) that can only be changed by the elected government. Usually the monarch must sign laws into effect, but is required to follow the will of the elected government.

A constitutional monarchy usually has separation of powers, and the monarch often has only ceremonial duties, such as representing the country while traveling or acting as a symbol for the whole country (not for a particular political party). Constitutional monarchs usually do not vote, even when it is legal for them to do so. Voting would mean that they picked a side in political arguments and then could not claim to represent everyone in the country. Some constitutional monarchies give the power to veto laws to the monarch, but in most countries where this is the case it is a power that is very rarely used. In countries where the monarch can dismiss or appoint governments, this is usually only done to make sure that the democratic process is respected, without taking sides in politics. Appointments to public office made by constitutional monarchs are generally approved by the democratically elected government beforehand.

Examples of Constitutional monarchies are the United Kingdom, most members of the Commonwealth of Nations, Australia, The Netherlands, Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Belgium, Japan and Spain. Thailand has a monarch who sometimes take part in politics to influence the government unlike in other constitutional monarchies, but he/she still is subject to law.

Today, there are three basic forms how to choose a new monarch, after the death of the old one; or because the old monarch left power:
Of these three, the order of succession is the most common case. 

While most monarchies are hereditary (meaning that the title passes on through inheritance), there have been cases where a monarch has been elected. This was especially common in the Holy Roman Empire, where the Emperor and many other rulers within the empire were elected to the position.

Countries, where the monarchs are elected include Malaysia, Samoa, Cambodia, United Arab Emirates, Andorra, and Vatican City.



