Adelaide


Adelaide () is a city in Australia. It is the capital city of the state of South Australia, and it has an approximate population of 1.2 million people.

It is the fifth biggest city in Australia, behind Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. Adelaide was founded in 1836 by Colonel William Light, who named it after Queen Adelaide.

Adelaide is near the Southern Ocean and is north of the Fleurieu Peninsula. It has a river going through it called the River Torrens. Many festivals are held there. Adelaide has a hot-summer and cool-wet-winter Mediterranean climate. Grapes for wine production are grown in the Barossa Valley about 50 kilometres (30 miles) northeast of Adelaide, in the McLaren Vale about 30 kilometres south of Adelaide and parts of the Mt Lofty Ranges to the east.


Yoshi

Yoshi is a fictional dinosaur who appears in the "Mario" series of video games made by Nintendo. The character was created by Shigeru Miyamoto. 

Yoshi's best-known ability is his ability to eat enemies. He has a long frog-like tongue which he uses to eat enemies and items. In some games, after Yoshi eats enemies, they can be turned into eggs, which can be thrown. One of Yoshi's companions is Mario who helps Yoshi throughout dangerous situations. Most of the time, Mario can ride Yoshi. 

Yoshi also can jump very high, and can also float in the air a little bit by kicking his legs. He can also ground pound enemies by quickly jumping on them.

Yoshis are usually green, but can come in many other colors. These other colors include green, red, light blue, blue, purple, pink, yellow, orange, brown, black, and white. Blue Yoshi is especially in Super Mario World. In Super Mario 64 DS, Rec Room there's a light blue color in one of Yoshi's minigames Tox Box. In Vs Mode multiplayer, it has a dark blue color and the third player can play him.

In a few games like "Super Mario World" Yoshi gains powers, like flying, shooting fireballs when spat out, ground pounding, or all three by holding certain colored koopa troopa shells in its mouth.

Yoshi first appeared in the game "Super Mario World" (SNES), which was released in 1990 in Japan and 1991 in the United States.


Yoshi is a very well-known character in the "Mario" series. Yoshi is also seen a lot in Mario toys, games, and shirts. Yoshi was in two of the Mcdonald's Happy Meal Mario toy promotions, which only starred Mario, Donkey Kong and Yoshi himself. In a 2008 poll, Yoshi was voted as the third favorite video game character in Japan. Cloud Strife and Mario were second and first place, in that order.

Lake

A lake (from Latin: "lacus") is a large body of water (larger and deeper than a pond) within a body of land. As a lake is separated from the ocean, it is not a sea. Some lakes are very big, and people in the past sometimes called them seas. Lakes do not flow like rivers, but many have rivers flowing into and out of them.

Most lakes on the surface of the Earth are fresh water and most are in the Northern Hemisphere. More than 60% of the lakes of the world are in Canada. Finland is known as "The Land of the Thousand Lakes" (there are 187,888 lakes in Finland, of which 60,000 are large).

Many lakes are man-made reservoirs built to produce electricity, for recreation, or to use the water for irrigation or industry, or in houses.

If there are not rivers flowing out of the lake (see Endorheic basin), or they are few and small, the lake loses water only by evaporation or because the water flows through the soil pores. Where the water evaporates rapidly and the soil around the lake has a high salt level, as in very dry places, the water of the lake has a high concentration of salt and the lake is called a salt lake. Examples of salt lakes are the Great Salt Lake, the Caspian Sea, the Aral Sea, and the Dead Sea.




