Brass


Brass is an alloy of copper and zinc. Some types of brass are called bronzes.

Brass has a golden appearance. It is harder than pure metals and resists corrosion. It costs more than zinc.

There are some common brasses:

Things brass are used to make include:

Brass is more malleable than bronze or zinc. The melting point of brass can be 900 to 940 °C or 1,650 to 1,720 °F, depending on what it is made of. The density of brass is 8.4 to 8.73 g/cm (0.303 to 0.315 lb/cu in). 

Today, almost 90% of all brass alloys are recycled. Brass is not ferromagnetic. Brass scrap is collected and transported to the foundry. In the foundry, it is melted and recast into billets. The billets are heated and stretched into the form and size that is wanted.

Brass will corrode when it is exposed to moisture, chlorides, acetates, ammonia, and some acids.

There are many brass alloys. They include:


Body

A body is the physical material of a person or organism. It is only used for organisms which are in one part or whole. There are organisms which change from single cells to whole organisms: for example, slime moulds. For them the term 'body' would mean the multicellular stage. Other uses:

The body of a dead person is also called a corpse or "cadaver". The dead bodies of vertebrate animals and insects are sometimes called "carcasses".

The human body has a head, neck, torso, two arms, two legs and the genitals of the groin, which differ between males and females.

The study of the body is anatomy. 

The study of the workings of the body is physiology.

Here are the names of the body parts of a woman and a man. 

The word body is sometimes used in other ways. For example, a lake is a body of water. The laws on a topic are a "body of law".


Alloy

An alloy is a uniform mixture. It is made up of two or more chemical elements, of which at least one is a metal. An alloy has properties different from the metals it is made of.

Most alloys are made by melting the metals, mixing them while they are liquid to form a solution, then leaving them to cool and turn solid again.

Combining a pure metal with one or more other metals or non-metals often makes it better. For example, steel is an alloy made from iron but it is stronger than iron. Physical properties like density, reactivity and electrical and thermal (heat) conductivity may not be much different than the elements (substances) which make the alloy. But, properties like strength can be very much different.

The first alloy to be discovered was Bronze. Bronze is made from copper and tin. Bronze was discovered a very long time ago in the prehistoric period. Then, bronze was being used for making tools and weapons. This period was known as Bronze Age. But, later better alloys were discovered which replaced bronze for making tools and weapons. Now, bronze is used for making ornaments, statues, and bells. Brass is another alloy made from copper and zinc.

Melting point is the temperature at which a solid changes to liquid. Most alloys do not have a single melting point. They have a melting range in which the alloy is a mixture of solid and liquid stages. The temperature at which melting just starts is called solidus and the temperature at which the melting is just finished is called liquidus.

The term alloy means a mixture of atoms in which the main substance or the primary constituent is a metal. This primary metal is called the "base" or "matrix".

If an alloy has only two types of atoms, like copper-nickel alloy, then such an alloy is called "binary alloy". If an alloy has three types of atoms, like iron, nickel and chromium, then it is called a "ternary alloy". An alloy with four types of atoms is called a "quaternary alloy" and an alloy with five types of atoms is called a "quinary alloy".

Different varieties or forms of alloys can be made from the same constituent materials (substances from which the alloy is formed). These different forms or varieties can be formed by using different amounts of the constituents. 

There are some common alloys:


Material

Material is what everything that you can touch is made of. Even material that is too small to touch, is called material. We use materials to make things. We can also call material "physical substances."

"Raw" material is materials such as ores which we can clean and mix with other materials to make another material like steel, for example. Cotton is a raw material used to make textiles, which are used to make clothes. Material is not matter, though. Matter is everything in existence. Material is used for things that have use. Refined materials are materials that have been refined, like metal, reduced or converted into better, more useful materials like clothes and tools. Refined materials are usually mixes of other materials, like glue or steel.

Brain

The brain is the part of the body which lets living beings think. It does some bodily functions, such as telling the rest of the body what to do. 

It gets input from sense organs, and changes behavior in response to this information. In humans, the brain also controls our use of language, and is capable of abstract thought. The brain is the main control centre of the whole body. The brain is made up of special cells called nerves, which are connected with each other and with other nerves in our body. 

In all animals, the brain is protected in some way. In ourselves, and all vertebrates, it is protected by the bones of the skull. In woodpeckers, the brain is protected by the tongue, which wraps around the brain.

The brain does the thinking, learning, and feeling for the body. For humans, it is the source of consciousness. The brain also controls basic autonomic body actions, like breathing, digestion, heartbeat, that happen automatically. These activities, and much else, are governed by unconscious functions of the brain and nervous system. All the information about the world gathered by our senses is sent through nerves into the brain, allowing us to see, hear, smell, taste, and feel things. The brain processes this information, and we experience it as pictures, sounds, and so on. The brain also uses nerves to tell the body what to do, for example by telling muscles to move or our heart to beat faster.

This is generally true but some activity is caused by the spinal cord directly, for example, reflex actions do not involve the brain. In lower animals, a good deal is done without their brain being involved. 

All vertebrates have brains and, over time, their brains have evolved to become more complex. Some simple animals, however, like sponges, do not have anything like a brain. Segmented invertebrates have ganglions in each segment, and a ring of nervous tissue around the alimentary canal at the front. This acts to bring sense data from the front into play with the movement of the body.

In mammals, the brain is made of three main parts: the cerebrum, the cerebellum, and the brainstem. The surface of the cerebrum is the cerebral cortex, which all vertebrates have. Mammals also have an extra layer, the neocortex. This is the key to the behaviour which is typical of mammals, especially humans.

The cortex has sensory, motor, and association areas. The sensory areas are the areas that get and process information from the senses. The motor areas control voluntary movements, especially fine movements performed by the hand. The right half of the motor area controls the left side of the body, and vice versa. Association areas produce a meaningful experience of the world and supports abstract thinking and language. This enables us to interact effectively. Most connections are from one area of the cortex to another, rather than to subcortical areas; The figure may be as high as 99%.

The thalamus puts together the input from most of the senses. It is the place in the brain which makes the "picture" we have of the world outside us. The thalamus sits centrally under the cerebral cortex.

The cerebellum coordinates muscles so they work together. It is also the centre of keeping position and balance, and motor skills. It is one of the most ancient parts of the brain and sits at the back underneath the cerebral cortex.

The brain stem is at the back of the brain (actually underneath it in humans). It joins the rest of the brain with the spinal cord. It has lots of different parts that control different jobs in the body: for instance, the brain stem controls breathing, heartbeat, sneezing, eye blinking, and swallowing. Body temperature and hunger are also controlled by parts of the brain stem. Roughly speaking, it deals with the more automated aspects of nervous function.

The volume of the human brain (relative to the size of the whole body) is very large, compared to that of most other animals. The human brain also has a very large surface (called cortex) for its size, which is possible because it is very wrinkled. If the human cortex were flattened, it would be close to a square meter in area. Some other animals also have very wrinkled brains, such as dolphins and elephants. Here is a rule of thumb: the larger an animal is, the larger its brain will be. Even allowing for that, the human brain, and in particular the neocortex, is very large. We know it increased in size "four-fold" over the last several million years of evolution. There are ideas about why this happened, but no-one is quite sure. Most theories suggest complex social activity and the evolution of language would make a larger brain advantageous. As an additional note, Einstein's brain weighed only 1,230 grams, which is less than the average adult male brain (about 1,400 grams). The detailed organisation of a brain obviously matters, but in ways which are not understood at present.

A human brain accounts for about 2% of the body's weight, but it uses about 20% of its energy. It has about 50–100 billion nerve cells (also called neurons), and roughly the same number of support cells, called "glia". The job of neurons is to receive and send information to and from the rest of the body, while glia provide nutrients and guide blood flow to the neurons, allowing them to do their job. Each nerve cell has contact with as many as 10,000 other nerve cells through connections called synapses.



