Comoving distance


In normal cosmology, 'comoving' distance or 'proper distance' is one of several distances measured by cosmologists to define distances between objects. 

To talk about the shape of the Universe, scientists want to forget that the Universe is expanding. So they separate the shape from time and pretend that the Universe is not expanding. They remember that, really, the Universe is expanding, but they write this in a variable called the scale factor. Then, the distances they talk about, while putting the scale factor to the side, are called comoving distances. When they think about the Universe using comoving distance, they think of the Universe as not expanding. This way, some calculations are easier.

When the part of the Universe which we can see today started, it was very small. Everything in this part of the Universe was much closer together than today. It was also very hot and photons (particles of light) were moving in different directions. Light moves very fast, but the light speed is limited and the Universe was expanding very fast.

Think of two ants on the surface of an expanding balloon. One ant starts moving towards another, but the balloon itself is also expanding. After a long time the balloon starts expanding more slowly. Eventually one ant reaches another. That's like photons in our universe. Some of the light from the stars you see at night traveled for billions of years to reach your eye. Surprisingly, it started very close to where you were (or the atoms of which your body consists), but just could not keep up with the universe expansion. Of course, if something else started out very close to where you were, but was not traveling toward you, it would be very far away from you now because of the expansion. 

Shaanxi

Shaanxi (Chinese:陕西, also sometimes called Shenshi) is a province in east China. The word "Shaan" (viz Shanzhou) is a place in Henan Province. "Xi" means "west". So "Shaanxi" means "the place to the west of Shaan". 

Although in pinyin, "Shaanxi" is spelled exactly the same as "Shanxi", the only difference in how the two words are pronounced is that the first syllable in "Shanxi" is said using the first tone in Mandarin, while the first syllable in "Shaanxi" is said with the third tone. Since tone markers are not usually used to show how to pronounce the two different names, the first word in "Shaanxi" is spelled using the Gwoyeu Romatzyh method instead, which indicates tones by adding extra letters to a syllable.

The river Wei He runs across it. It has a large population of more than 30 million people. The capital of Shaanxi is Xi'an. It abbreviates as Shan (陕) or Qin (秦), also known as SanQin (三秦, meaning "Three Qins").

January 23, 1556 – A massive earthquake, measuring 9.0 on the Richter scale, strikes Shaanxi, killing over 850,000 people. This is the most devastating earthquake in recorded history.

Shaanxi Province is divided into ten municipalities:


Lisbon

Lisbon () is the capital city of Portugal. It is the largest city of Portugal. The city has a population of about half million people. In Lisbon's urban area live around 2.8 million people, being the 10th-most populous urban area in the European Union. 
Lisbon is placed on the right bank (western) of the Tagus River, near the outfall. It has a pleasant climate and has about 220 days of sunshine each year. There are many beautiful beaches close to the city. There are also many seafood restaurants, historical sites and monuments, being one of the oldest cities in the world.

The municipality of Lisbon have 24 "freguesias" (civil parishes).

The Lisbon Metro connects the city centre to different districts, it also reaches some suburbs around the Lisbon metropolitan area, like Amadora and Loures.

Trams are a traditional public transport in Lisbon. It was first introduced in 1901, many of the electric trams were originally imported from the US, and were called "americanos". Trams in Lisbon are coloured yellow and is one of the tourist icons of the city, and their size is great for steep hills and narrow streets of the central city.


Surfing

Surfing is a water sport done in the ocean or sea. The surfer uses their surfboard to catch a wave and ride in towards the shore.

Surfing was invented by the Polynesians at least 4000 years ago. Surfing made its Olympic debut at the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo, Japan. It has become a popular sport among both men and women of all ages. With lifestyles and regimens freer than those of most sports, surfers comprise a unique culture. Though surfing is practiced in many other Pacific nations, its center remains Hawaii, where many rounds of the international surfing championships (the ASP) are held annually. Surfing is popular in Australia, the US, and Northern Europe.


Lyon

Lyon (Arpitan: "Liyon") is a city in the southeast of France. It is the third-largest city in the country (behind Paris and Marseille), with about 513,000 people living there in 2015. It is the second largest "metropolis", or metro area, in France (behind only that of Paris), with about 2.3 million people in 2014. 

In ancient history, the name of Lyon was "Lugdunum". Someone who lives in Lyon is called a "Lyonnais" (male) or a "Lyonnaise" (female) in French.

Lyon has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa" in the Koeppen climate classification). It is between the Rhône and the Saône. It is about west of the Italian border. 

The central part of Lyon, located on the peninsula between the Rhône and the Saône, was named a World Heritage Site by UNESCO.


Famous sports clubs from Lyon are:



