Snow


Snow is a form of ice. Snow forms when water in the atmosphere becomes frozen. It comprises individual ice crystals that grow while suspended in the atmosphere—usually within clouds—and then fall, accumulating on the ground where they undergo further changes. Snow comes in all different shapes and sizes.

At the freezing point of water (0° Celsius, 32° Fahrenheit), snow melts and becomes liquid water. Sometimes, the snow will melt very fast and become water vapor. This is called sublimation. The opposite, where water vapor becomes snow, is called deposition.

Snow is used for some winter sport activities like skiing and sledding. Sometimes people make artificial snow so they can ski. People also commonly build things out of snow for fun.

Snow can also be dangerous, as it can lower visibility and make driving very difficult. When it snows, the snow will melt a little during the daytime and freeze again at night. This makes ice which can make driving conditions very treacherous. Snow plows are used to remove snow from roads to make driving easier and safer. Also, sand or salt may be added to the road to help tires grip the road. When salt is mixed with snow, the snow will melt more easily. This is because salt water has a lower melting point than fresh water (water without salt).

A blizzard is a dangerous type of a snowstorm. A blizzard produces strong winds that keep the snow in the air, thus reducing visibility. Sometimes it produce thunder snow, which is snow with lightning and thunder.

West

West is one of the 4 main directions on a compass. West is normally to the left on most maps. For example: (Germany is located to the west of Poland, which is itself located to the west of Lithuania). When “The West” is used in everyday speech: it usually refers to the nations of Europe (Especially from Croatia Westward) and its daughter states in the Americas and Australasia. The sun and moon also set in the west.

List of physics topics

Air resistance

Compression --Critical angle -- Colour filter -- Concave lens -- Convex lens

Diffraction -- Density (distance)--(displacement)

Electromagnetic spectrum -- Energy --

Fluid friction -- Focus -- Force sensor -- Frequency -- Friction --
Flotation

Gamma ray -- Gravity

Inertia -- Interference

Kinetic energy
Lamp-housing -- Laser pointer -- Lens -- Longitudinal wave -- Longitudinal wave model (Crova's disc) --

Moment of inertia

Normal -- Normal force -- Newton's laws of motion

Oscilloscope - Overhead projector

Plane mirror -- Potential energy -- Prism

Rarefaction -- Ray box -- Reflection -- Refraction -- Ripple tank --
relative density refleaction of light through prism

Signal generator -- Slinky -- Slit plate -- Spring -- String theory -- Sound -- Statistical mechanics

Tension -- Translucent screen -- Transverse wave -- Transverse wave model --

Vibration -- Velocity

wave -- Wave speed -- Waveform -- Wavefront -- Wavelength --

Young's double-slit experiment

President

A president is the leader and head of state of a country which is a republic. A president is usually elected directly through a vote by the citizens or indirectly by legislatures (parliaments) who were voted by the citizens and which represents them. 

Some presidents are both the head of state and head of government, such as the President of the United States. In other countries, such as the Republic of Ireland, the President has a ceremonial role while the Prime Minister is the leader of the government. In France, the President and Prime Minister both share executive powers.

A president could also be the title of the head of a large business, company or organization.

Many republics have direct elections by citizens to elect a president. But some other republics do not. The President of the United States is elected by the electoral college. Some other republics choose a president this way. In some other republics, the parliament elects a president. 

Countries that have a monarch as leader, are called monarchies. Some countries have neither a president or a monarch as leader, such as the Vatican City which is ruled by a religious leader called a Pope.

Companies also have presidents. They are elected by the people who own part of the company. In some companies, the people who are workers for the company elect (vote for) their company president.

The president of a country is not the same thing as a prime minister. A prime minister is part of a parliament, but a president is not. In some countries, (such as the United States or France), the president has more power and responsibility than anyone else. Such a president is often called the nation's chief executive. As chief executive, the president must take an active role in all phases of government. The republics where the president is both the head of state and head of government (and there is no prime minister) are called a presidential republics. 

In other republics (such as India, Israel or the Republic of Ireland), to be president is more of an honor or a symbol, and the position has no real power. The real power in such republics is held by the prime minister, who is the head of government. In this kind of republics, the president is only the head of state, and are called parliamentary republics.

In some republics (such as France or Russia) both the president as the head of state, and the prime minister as the head of government, run the day-to-day affairs of the state, but often the president has more powers than the prime minister. Such republics are called semi-presidential republics. 

Most monarchies that have a king or queen as their monarch and head of state, have no president, but very few monarchies, such as the United Arab Emirates has a president who is the head of state, who by custom (but not by law) is always the emir (monarch) of Abu Dhabi, which is "de facto" hereditary.

The American President is restricted by the written United States Constitution, which was written to make sure that the American executive never became as powerful as in the British system. The British Prime Minister is part of both the Legislature and Executive, whereas the American President is the head of the Executive. The American governmental system shows a clear separation of powers unlike the British system.

So despite having a large nuclear arsenal, the American president can not carry out policy and introduce legislation as freely as the British prime minister.



