Area


Area is the amount of space a two dimensional (flat) surface takes up. It is useful because it is how much of a material is needed to make a hollow container. Area is the amount of surface covered by a close object or shape. 

Some units used to measure area are square foot, square mile, square metre and square kilometre. The area of a planar figure is often written as formula_1. Areas of regular shapes such as square, rectangle, triangle and circle can be calculated through formulas. The area of an irregular shape can be approximated through grid or graph paper.

One can use different formulas to find the area of different shapes. For example:

The area of a flat object is related to the surface area and volume of a three-dimensional object.

The area under a curve can be found using integration, a concept from calculus.


Air space

Air space is the area of the air that is controlled by a country or organisation. You have to have the permission of the controller to enter their air space in an airplane. The air traffic controllers make sure the planes go in the right place and do not hit each other or something else. Some countries are very protective of their air space.

Swamp cooler

Swamp coolers are simple type of air conditioning device that can cool a room of a house or a car by using the cooling effect of the evaporation of water. This is known as evaporative cooling. Swamp coolers can cool the air temperature in a small space by drawing the air through wet pads (some are made of aspen wood) using an electric fan. Swamp coolers work best in dry climates such as the American Southwest and the American South. They are usually much cheaper to buy and operate than refrigerated air-conditioning devices. This type of air conditioner was first used thousands of years ago in ancient Iran. 

Saskatoon

Saskatoon is a city in Saskatchewan, Canada. Saskatoon is the biggest city in Saskatchewan. Saskatoon, though, is not the capital of Saskatchewan. Regina is the capital of Saskatchewan. The South Saskatchewan River flows through the centre of the city and many people enjoy boating, biking and walking in this area. The University of Saskatchewan is also in Saskatoon.

The name "Saskatoon" [in Cree: "sâskwatôn", "Saskatoon"] comes from the Cree inanimate noun "misâskwatômina" "saskatoon berries", which refers to the sweet, violet-coloured berry that grows in the area.

CKOM 650

CJWW 600

Glass rod

Glass rods are sometimes used as stirrers in laboratory environments.

Glass rods are often used to spread liquids evenly onto something. An example would be to coat glass surfaces with liquids to look at them under a microscope.

Glass rods rubbed with silk or fur were used in early demonstrations of electrical energy. 

Glass rods are commonly manufactured in diameters of 3 mm, 6 mm, and 10 mm.

Glass is used for these rods because it does not react with most laboratory chemicals.

Thermometer

A thermometer is an instrument for measuring or showing temperature (how hot or cold something is). One type of thermometer is a narrow, concealed glass tube containing mercury or alcohol which extends along the tube as it expands. Another type is a digital thermometer, which uses electronics to measure temperature.

Early thermometers from the time of Galileo measured the expansion and contraction of air. After the middle 17th century many used alcohol or mercury. In the 19th century a mechanical thermometer was in invented that used a bimetallic strip to move a pointer. This kind is still popular where people like to read temperature from a distance.

A laboratory thermometer is a tool used in laboratories, places where scientists and science techs perform experiments and measure things. A laboratory thermometer can measure temperature very closely. A laboratory thermometer can be put into the liquid or other thing that the scientist wants to measure. A laboratory thermometer has a long stem with a silver bulb at the end. The silver color in the bulb usually means there is mercury in it. Mercury becomes bigger as the temperature becomes hotter. But mercury is a poison to humans. Mercury-in-glass thermometers are less used in the 21st century because people want digital, alcohol-filled, and organic-based thermometers instead.

In the 20th century, the traditional clinical thermometer was a mercury-in-glass thermometer. People put the end of this in their mouth ("oral" temperature), under their arm, or in their rectum ("rectal" temperature).

It is only possible to find oral temperatures on patients who can hold the thermometer correctly in their mouth. So small children cannot use this method. It is also a problem for people with a cough or people who are vomiting. In the past it was a big problem because mercury thermometers needed a long time to measure the temperature. Today's digital thermometers are faster. If a person drinks something hot or cold, one still needs to wait before testing their oral temperature. 

When measuring a person's rectal temperature, it helps to use a cream on the thermometer. Rectal thermometers are usually more reliable since they aren't as much influenced by other factors. In some countries people think it is embarrassing to use them for people older than two or three. In other countries, it is considered normal for children and adults to use rectal thermometers.

In the 1990s, people in many countries thought mercury thermometers were too risky, as mercury is dangerous if it leaks out. Today we use electronic thermometers. Sometimes thermometers with liquids are used, but not with mercury. 

There are other kinds of medical thermometers: "tympanic" thermometers test the temperature of the tympanic membrane (the eardrum) with infrared; "band" thermometers test a person's temperature on the front of their head.


Week

A week is 7 days in connecting order. There are usually 52 weeks in a year.

In the English language, the days of the week are named after gods in Norse mythology, except for Saturday, which is named after a Roman god.
Depending on the law of a country, the week either starts on Monday and ends on Sunday, or starts on Sunday and ends on Saturday. In most countries, Saturday and Sunday are the weekend. Friday, Saturday, and Sunday is a religious day for Muslims, Jews, and Christians, respectively.


Suffix

A suffix is a few letters put at the end of a word to change its meaning. It is a type of affix mostly used to show inflection.

Verb examples:

Adjective examples:


Compare to prefix. Prefixes are letters put at the beginning of a word to change its meaning.

Japanese language

The Japanese language () is the official language of Japan, in East Asia. Japanese belongs to the Japonic language family, which also includes the endangered Ryukyuan languages. One theory says Japanese and Korean are related, but most linguists no longer think so. Other theories about the origin of Japanese are that it is related to the Austronesian languages, the Dravidian languages, or the controversial Altaic language family. The term used for Japanese as a course of study by citizens is "kokugo" (国語), which means national language. Nonetheless, Japanese is still referred to as Nihon-go by the Japanese.

Japanese uses three separate writing systems: hiragana, katakana, and kanji. Hiragana and katakana are phonetic systems and show the pronunciation of Japanese words. Kanji is the Japanese variation of Chinese characters and shows the meaning of Japanese words. The three systems are used interchangeably, and all three systems can often be found in the same sentence. The three systems are each reserved for different purposes.

In English, the order of the words is very important. For example, the sentences "Is it?" and "It is." mean different things. In Japanese, differences are often made by adding or changing the ending of words (using the previous example, one would say them as そうですか "sou desu ka" and そうです "sou desu", respectively). A Japanese word has a stem called a "body", and additional parts (called suffixes). Changing the suffix can change the meaning or the grammar of the word.

After World War II, many English words entered the Japanese language (wasei-eigo). An example of one would be "アイスクリーム (romanized: aisukurīmu)”, meaning “ice cream”.

Japanese has five vowel sounds that can have two different lengths. They are "a, i, u, e, o". In IPA they are transliterated as /a/, /i/, /ɯ/, /e/, /o/; and they are pronounced in English as "ah, ee, oo, eh, oh". Lengthening a vowel can change the meaning of the word: "ojisan" (おじさん, uncle) and "ojiisan" (おじいさん, grandfather). Japanese has a sound that is like the English "l", but it is also like the English "r". (That is why it can be difficult for many Japanese when to learn to make both sounds when they speak English.) Japanese has a sound that is uncommon in English and is usually written "Tsu" (つ). This sound appears in "tsunami" (つなみ), the Japanese word for large ocean waves caused by earthquakes or extreme weather.

When foreigners speak Japanese, it is important they know how formal they must be when they speak to people you may or may not know. In Japan, it could be considered quite impolite (rude) if you are not formal enough.

In Japanese, sentences use subject-object-verb (SOV) word order, so the verb is at the end of the sentence and the subject is at the beginning. Many sentences have no subject, and the listener can infer the subject based context and the form of a verb.

In Japanese, Japan is called "Nihon" (日本), and the language is called "Nihongo" (日本語) (-go means "language"). Sometimes, the words "Nippon" and "Nippongo" are also used, but both words are now thought of as more nationalist, and "Nihon" is a more neutral word. The kanji of the word mean "sun-origin." Since Japan is at the eastern edge of Asia, to observers in China, the sun rose from the direction of Japan. That is why Japan is called "The Land of Rising Sun."

Japanese is also agglutinative language, especially in its verbs. Its words has a short "body," and prefixes or suffixes are easily added to change or to redefine the meaning.

Japanese words come from three main sources. The first is "wago" (和語), which are native Japanese words and can also be called "yamato kotoba" (大和言葉). The second is "kango" (漢語), which are Chinese loanwords. The third is "gairaigo" (外来語), which are loanwords borrowed from languages other than Chinese (usually English since the Second World War).

Japanese has three main writing systems:

Hiragana is a Syllabary, meaning each character represents a syllable or vowel. Each character is a comprised of either a vowel, a consonant-vowel blend, or the syllabic consonant, n (ん). Hiragana is the standard, phonetic writing system in Japanese and is used for grammatical words or particles e.g. は、を (wa - Subject particle, o - Object Particle); words that don't have Kanji characters e.g. こんにちは (kon'nichiwa - hello); or for beginners to write Kanji. The symbols were originally adopted from Kanji characters and have changed overtime into their distinct, rounded shapes (e.g. 以 →い).

Katakana is also a Syllabary, with each Hiragana character having a character in Katakana (e.g. あ = ア こ = コ). Katakana is used for impact (similar to italics in English) as well as gairaigo words and direct transliterations from English e.g. メニュー (Menyuu - Menu). Katakana was originally made by Buddhist Monks to teach Japanese people how to read Chinese.

Kanji is an adaptation of the Chinese logographic writing system, meaning each symbol was originally meant to look like the word it was describing. Each symbol can represent a word e.g. 音 (oto - sound) or a syllable in a larger word. There are multiple pronunciations for each Kanji character, categorised into On'yomi (音読み) or Kun'yomi (訓読み), depending on the word's origin.

Spice

Spice is an ingredient that adds flavor to food. It is usually used to enrich or alter the quality of something. Spices can be used to give food an interesting and exciting taste.

Examples of a spice would be cinnamon, fenugreek and nutmeg.

Spices can also be used to hide or cover up bad tastes in the food, because it is rotten or affected by fungi, e.g. marzipan.

Indians and Pakistanis use a lot of spices like turmeric


Flavor

Flavor (or flavour in British English) is the main quality of anything which affects the taste. When someone remarks on the "flavor" of something they are trying to describe the specific way something tastes.

Flavor can also be used to describe the act of adding a taste alteration (to change the taste) to something. This is usually done by adding spices or sugars, though in "processed food" there are oftentimes artificial (fake) flavors. A person who develops natural and/or artificial food additives is called a flavourist or flavorist (US English).

Bank

A bank is a financial institution where customers can save or borrow money. Banks also invest money to build up their reserve of money. What they do is regulated by laws. Those laws differ in different countries. The people who work at a bank are called bank employees. Certain banks deal directly with the public and they are the only ones which an ordinary person will deal with. Other banks deal with investments and international currency trading.

Customer's money may be placed in the bank for safe keeping. Banks may give loans to customers under an agreement to pay the money back to the bank at a later time, with interest. An example is getting a mortgage to buy a house or apartment. Banks also can use the money they have from deposit accounts to invest in businesses in order to make more money.

In most countries the rules for banks are made by the government acting through laws. A central bank (such as the Bank of England) adjusts how much money is issued at a particular time. This is a factor in the economy of a country, and the government takes the big decisions. These "banks of issue" take in, and issue out, coins and banknotes.

The word "bank" comes from an Italian word "banco", meaning "a bench", since Italian merchants in the Renaissance made deals to borrow and lend money beside a bench. They placed the money on that bench.

Elementary financial records are known from the beginning of history. Baked clay records were done before the invention of writing.

In the 17th century, merchants started storing their gold with goldsmiths in London. The goldsmiths had their own vaults, and charged a fee for storing the merchants' gold. The goldsmiths eventually started loaning money using the gold left to them, and also paid interest on the gold.

The Bank of England began issuing banknotes in 1695. The oldest bank still in existence is Monte dei Paschi di Siena in Siena, Italy, which started in 1472.

A bank usually provides the following services:


Halley's Comet

Halley's Comet (Comet Halley) is a comet which comes round every 75 or 76 years. When it is near, it can be seen with the naked eye. It will return in 2061.

The comet is named after Edmond Halley (1656–1742), an English astronomer, who predicted the comet's return. Halley's Comet was the first comet to be recognized as periodic. (Periodic means that it comes by Earth regularly.)

When the comet came close to the Earth in 1986, it was visited by several space-probes. The probe "Giotto" from the European Space Agency managed the closest approach to the comet.

The number of years that the comet finishes its full cycle can vary depending on the effect of another planet's gravitational pull.

In 1986, Halley's Comet was the first to be observed in detail by spacecraft. It gave the first data on the structure of a comet nucleus and how the "coma" (nebulous envelope around the core or nucleus) and the tail formed. These observations supported Fred Whipple's "dirty snowball" model. This correctly predicted that Halley would be composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water, carbon dioxide, ammonia, – and dust. The missions also adjusted these ideas. For example, it is now known that the "surface" of Halley is mostly dusty, non-volatile materials, and that only a small portion of it is icy.


Hubble Space Telescope

Hubble Space Telescope (HST) is the first big optical space observatory telescope. Being above the atmosphere means it can see the sky more clearly than a telescope on the ground. The atmosphere blurs starlight before it reaches Earth. Named after the astronomer Edwin Hubble, the Hubble Space Telescope can observe 24 hours a day. The main mirror is 94.5 inches (2.4 meters) across. The telescope can take pictures of things so far away it would be nearly impossible to see them from anywhere else.

It was made by both NASA and the ESA working together. It is 600 km in space and was launched on April 24, 1990. Like other things in low Earth orbit it travels at 5 miles (10 km) per second. If you were going this speed on Earth, you would be able to get from New York to San Francisco in 10 minutes. This speed creates difficulty in scheduling observations.

The Hubble itself is the size of a large school bus, but still small enough to fit inside the cargo bay of a Space Shuttle. It was repaired in 1993 due to problems in the picture quality.

The telescope was launched in 1990 by a space shuttle. When it entered orbit, everything seemed fine. But there was a problem with the telescope that was not discovered until it started taking pictures.
When the HST took its first pictures, astronomers were happy to see the images, but they were not as sharp and as crisp as expected. Telescopes in space can take better pictures than telescopes on Earth, but for some reason, the pictures were not better than the pictures taken on Earth. They found a problem with the telescope's mirror. The mirror was not curved right. It was only wrong by 2.2 microns (1/50th as thick as a piece of paper). Still, this was enough to cause the images to be blurred. Some said that Hubble was nearsighted.

Another space shuttle was soon sent up to repair the space telescope. The repair was not easy. The astronauts had to install some small mirrors to correct the light from the big mirror. The big mirror could still be used. It took five days of space walks. When an astronaut opened one of the doors on Hubble to install a new camera, the door would not close. The astronauts had to think of a creative way to get around the problem. Eventually, Hubble was fixed. 

Repairs and servicing missions have been made to the Hubble Space Telescope five times to keep it in orbit and make it even better as technology improved. The space shuttle program was kept going longer than planned to send an extra trip up to the Hubble Space Telescope for a final fix.


Hubble has been replaced by the James Webb Space Telescope which is located even further from Earth. There are now other telescopes in orbit, like the Herschel Space Observatory, the Spitzer Space Telescope and the Kepler Spacecraft, which was specially made for finding Earth-like planets around other stars.


Motion sensor

A motion sensor is a sensor device. It is used for studying motions. It is connected to a . The data-logger is connected to a computer. The computer runs a data-logging program. The computer is connected to power, and a security system. Motion sensors have many uses including security.

Applications for movement sensor technology include clinical, workplace safety & athletic sports.

Arm

An arm is a limb. Most humans have two arms each, coming out of their body at the shoulder, just below the neck. On the end of each arm is a hand. Humans use arms and hands to do things to other objects, this is called manipulation. The main purpose of the hand is to grasp objects. Some other primates have arms which they use to move around by holding onto trees or supporting themselves as they walk along the ground. Fingers and hand, wrist, forearm, elbow, upper arm and shoulder are parts of the arm. 


Arrow

An arrow is a projectile fired with a bow. A bow and arrow is a weapon used before medieval times and later. For thousands of years, people all over the world have used bows and arrows for hunting and for defense. Arrows have a sharp point at one end and usually a flight at the other end. The flight is usually made of feathers and helps the arrow go through the air straight. Someone who makes arrows is a fletcher.

A picture of an arrow is often used to point to something. Arrows look may like this: -->. "Double-headed" arrows look like this: <—>.

Golf

Golf is a game played in an open field where the golfer plays his golf ball into a hole by using different types of clubs (golf instruments). The book "Rules of Golf" reads "The Game of Golf consists in playing a ball from the teeing ground into the hole by a stroke or successive strokes in accordance with the Rules."

In golf, a golfer plays a number of holes in a given order. 18 holes played in an order controlled by the golf course design, normally make up a game. On a nine-hole course, two nine-hole rounds make up a normal game.
Each hole starts from the teeing area. Golfers put the ball on a small stand called a tee and swing a club at it to try and hit it as straight and far as possible. Once each golfer in the group has done this, the person whose ball landed farthest from the hole hits his again, followed by everyone else, one person at a time, until everyone is on the green. The green is the area near the hole where the grass is cut very short. 
Once on the green the players will try to "putt" the ball into the hole. Putting is similar to a regular swing except it is not as hard and the player does not want the ball to go in the air. Once each player has put their ball into the hole, the group moves on to the next hole.

Each time a player swings at his ball, it is considered a "stroke". Each hole is a certain number of strokes that golfers are expected to need to get their ball into the hole. This is known as the "par". If a player gets his ball in the hole in less than the par he gets a "birdie". If it takes him one more shot then the par it is known as a bogey. Most holes have a par between 3 and 5.

The two common forms of playing golf are match play and stroke play. In match play, two golfers (or two teams) play holes one at a time. The golfer with the lower number of strokes (number of times the golfer used to get his ball in the hole) wins that hole. If the two have the same number of strokes, the hole is "halved" (drawn). The golfer that has the greatest number of holes wins. In "stroke play", the golfer (or team) with the smallest number of strokes all together wins. There are different forms of these rules, some given in the "Rules of Golf" making them "official".

The four different types of clubs used in golf are woods, irons, putters and wedges. Woods are used to hit the ball very far, usually off the tee (but also on the fairway). The name of woods is different every number, for example, No.1 wood is called "driver", No.2 is "brassey", No.3 is "spoon" and so on. There are many types of irons, which can be used to hit varying distances. They are numbered 1-9 with a 1 iron hitting the ball farther than a 9. The 1 iron is no longer common in the game. Even the 2 iron is getting uncommon. Putters are used when on the green. The rules do not let the golfer use over 14 clubs in a game.

Golfers call the four (or five) biggest tournaments in professional golf "majors", and they play them at nearly the same time every year. The four majors are:

In 2013, women's golf added the fifth major. The Evian Masters, held in France.

Vincent Clark won the first ever open championship which was held in St Andrews in 1860.




