Cardiff


Cardiff is the capital and biggest city of Wales. It is also the 11th biggest city in the United Kingdom. Its name in the Welsh language is "Caerdydd". A 2011 census says that around 346,100 people live in Cardiff. It is the most important city in Wales for tourism, culture, government, sport, transport, nightlife and business.

Cardiff was declared a city in 1905, and it became the capital of Wales in 1955.

The Romans built a fort here in about 55 AD. Later, a castle was built within the walls of the fort when the city was first founded.

In 1404, Owain Glyndŵr set Cardiff on fire. Most of the buildings in Cardiff were made out of wood, so fire destroyed the city.

At the 2011 census, the biggest ethnic group in Cardiff is White (84.7%), other groups are Asian (8%), Black (2.4%), Arab (1.4%), Mixed (2.9%)

Cardiff has a big port that used to be known as Tiger Bay. It is now just called Cardiff Bay, and the Welsh Government works there. There are now lots of shops, pubs and restaurants in Cardiff Bay. Cardiff has an international airport, and is twinned with Nantes in France and Stuttgart in Germany. Cardiff has one of the largest stadiums in the United Kingdom, the Millennium Stadium, where important world sports matches and concerts happen. Other big stadiums in the city are the Cardiff City Stadium, where the main football team play, Cardiff Arms Park where the main rugby team play, and the SWALEC Stadium where cricket is played.

Three big rivers flow through Cardiff - the Taff, the Ely and the Rhymney.

Part of Cardiff is built on marshland.

To get around, there are lots of bus routes and train lines in the city. There are two big train stations in Cardiff city centre, called Central station and Queen Street station, but there are also 18 other smaller stations in the city for local areas. There are lots of cycle paths in Cardiff on and off the road.

Cardiff has a large university, with 33,000 students, making it the tenth-largest university in Britain. The city also has 127 schools.

Valladolid

Valladolid () is a city in Spain, with a population of 316,564. It is the capital of Castile and León, and one of the historical capitals of the Spanish Kingdom.

On 19 October, 1469, Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile married secretely in the "Palacio de los Vivero". Also, Christopher Columbus died in the city on 20 May, 1506.

The river that runs through the city is known as the Pisuerga. Valladolid has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate ("Csa" in the Köppen climate classification).

Elizabeth Gaskell

Elizabeth Cleghorn Gaskell (29 September 1810 – 12 November 1865) was an English writer.

She was born in Chelsea, London. After her mother died, she lived with her aunt in Knutsford, Cheshire. She married William Gaskell, a priest, in 1832. They lived in Manchester, where several of her books are set. She died of a heart attack in Holybourne, Hampshire.

Her most famous books are "Mary Barton", "Cranford", "North and South", and "Wives and Daughters". She also wrote a book of the life of her friend, writer Charlotte Brontë. Some of her books have been made into movies and television programmes.


Venice

Venice is a city in Italy. It is the capital of the Veneto region, which is in the north-east of the country. The population of the 'Comune di Venezia', which is Venice, its lagoon and its mainland is 271,367. Area is 412 km². The population of Venice itself keeps on shrinking at an alarming rate and is now under 55000 locals.

Venice is built on 118 small islands that are separated by 150 canals. People cross the canals by many small bridges. They can also navigate across the city on boats, both rowing boats and motor boats. The most famous Venetian type of boat is called a "gondola". The buildings in Venice are very old and attractive, and tourists come from all over the world to see them and the canals. This has made Venice one of the most famous cities in the world. The most famous sights are the Rialto Bridge, St Mark's Basilica and the Doge's Palace.
It is important to remember that Venice is much more than few landmarks and that we owe the city a lot: from words to objects or services of our daily life. Its lifestyle and culture are unique in the world and it can get confusing at first.

There are several problems in Venice, but it is still the most popular tourist attraction in northeast Italy. Venice now has about as many beds for visitors as for inhabitants: about 49,000 each. Every year the city sinks a few millimeters because the ground is made from mud. Eventually, the city might be completely underwater, but that would take decades. Because of this, the Italian government is building the MOSE Project, a state-of-the-art defense against the sea-water flooding, that will safely protect Venice indefinitely.

The city was founded by people from the greater Veneto region as a refuge from the Barbarian invasions, when the Western Roman Empire fell. During the Middle Ages, Venice slowly grew to become an important commercial city. Around the year 1000 AD the Republic of Venice started to create an empire in the eastern Mediterranean Sea. It lasted until 1797, when it was annexed by Napoleon's France. It then changed hands a few times, becoming a part of Austria two times, before becoming part of Italy during the Italian unification. Venice deeply influenced the Venetian, Istrian and Dalmatian coasts for one thousand years.

Venice started to lose population after its conquest by Napoleon, but with the unification of Italy the city returned to be an important city. It is actually one of the most visited places on Earth by tourists from all around the globe.

The 150 canals in the city, which add up to an overall length of 45 kilometers. The Grand Canal is the main canal in the city, with on its own having a length of 3 kilometers. it has a width at most of 70 meters and at least 30 meters. there are 3 major bends in the Grand Canal. 

The Rialto Bridge is a bridge that spans the Grand Canal. it is located on the third bend of the Grand Canal. There was once a high ground which was named "Rivo Alto", which means "High Shore" or "High Bank." the name Rialto is derived from this, and it is its own island in the center of Venice. 

Several markets moved to Rialto, and to make way for this, a pontoon bridge (boat bridge) was made in 1181. increasing foot traffic needed a real bridge, so in 1255 a wooden bridge was built. it had two ramps that met at a center, that was movable to let boats and ships pass by.

The wooden bridge needed constant fixing. in 1310, it was partly burnt during a revolt. in 1444, it collapsed under the weight of a horde of people rushing to see the wedding of Marquis of Ferrara. it collapsed again in 1524.

The idea of building the bridge in stone was tossed around beginning in 1503, and several designs were considered in the next decades. Some famous people who gave designs were Jacopo Sansovino, Palladio, and Vignola, but all designs included features of Classical Architecture, which was judged inappropriate for the placing.

Antonio da Ponte sent a design, and it was judged the design to be built. It is a single span stone bridge, similar to the wooden bridges, as it has two ramps that lead to a center. The ramps carry rows of shops. It is now today an architectural icon, however back when it was built, people considered it audacious.

There are several ways to get around in Venice. The most common is walking and using the vaporetto, which is a water bus which carries lots of people around the city. The vaporetto goes around the city and on the Grand Canal, it does not enter the small canals of the city. To see Venice from the small canals, most tourists use the gondola. Taxi boats can also be used to move around the city and its lagoon. The Grand Canal is long and can be crossed only on a few bridges. A simple way to cross it is to take one of the traghetti (ferries). The streets, Vaporetti, and traghetti are used by the locals, it is important to remember that they are their ways to move around the city to go to school, work and do their errands.

Usually, the warmest month is July and the coolest month is January. The maximum average precipitation occurs in November. The season of the acqua alta, high waters, are generally November to February. During the acqua alta season, the city can be partially flooded for a couple of hours on certain days.

Venice has incredible crafts, culture, and tradition. Shopping for handmade goods such as masks, Murano glass jewels, etc. is a must. These days, however, mass tourism led Venice to be invaded by many shops selling low-quality souvenirs.

Thankfully, there is a social enterprise based in Venice, which works closely with the Venetian business owners, shops, restaurants, and bars included. They have a certification process where the local artisan shops attest and commit to selling products that are both authentic and sustainable as well as to give a 10% discount to the customers carrying a "Venezia Autentica Friends' Pass" (buyable online for only 10 euros). The shops are part of the program are easy to spot thanks to a sticker on their door.




