Hyaena


Hyaenas (sometimes Hyenas) are mammals. They are the family Hyaenidae, in the order Carnivora. They live in Africa, and in west and south Asia. In the past they had a much wider distribution. Now there are two subfamilies with four species.

With only four species, it is the fourth-smallest family in the Carnivora, and one of the smallest in the class Mammalia. Despite their low diversity, hyenas are unique and vital components to most African and some Asian ecosystems.

Hyaena walk much like bears because their front legs are longer than their back. Except for the aardwolf, hyaenas are known to have one of the world's strongest bites. Its function is to crush bone.

Hyaenas look much like canids, but they are actually in the Feliformia, with cats and mongooses. Although related to felines and viverrids, their life style is similar to canids. 

Convergent evolution has taken place. Both large hyaenas and canids are non-climbing, running hunters which catch prey with their teeth rather than claws. Both eat food quickly and may store it. Their calloused feet have large, blunt, non-retractable nails, good for running and making sharp turns. However, the hyaenas' grooming, scent marking, defecating habits, mating, and parental behaviour are similar to the behaviour of other feliforms. Spotted hyenas are matriarchal. This means that females dominate and males are inferior.

Spotted hyaenas were long said to be cowardly scavengers, but they kill as much as 95% of the food they eat. They can drive off leopards or lionesses from their kills. Hyenas are mostly nocturnal animals, but may leave their lairs in the early morning. Except for the very social spotted hyaena, hyenas are generally not gregarious animals, though striped and brown hyaenas may live in family groups and come together at kills.

Spotted hyaenas are intelligent creatures. They work together well and are cooperative. They have strategic hunting methods and work to steal and protect food it from other predators. Their main targets are zebra and wildebeest. Their main rival is the lion. Whether spotted hyaenas do or do not chase lions off their kills is mostly a matter of numbers.


Table salt

Table salt is a mineral composed mainly of sodium chloride (NaCl). This is a chemical compound, one of many salts. Salt in its natural form as a crystalline mineral is known as rock salt or halite. 

When salt (sodium chloride) is mixed with water, the salt dissolves into the water, creating a saline solution. Salt is present in vast quantities in seawater, where it is the main mineral constituent. The open ocean has about of solids per litre, a salinity of 3.5%.

Salt can be made by either evaporation or can be mined. To get sea salt, man-made holes are built then filled with sea water. The water evaporates and leaves salt behind.

Table salt is one of the few minerals that are eaten a lot by humans, but it can be used for other things besides giving food its flavor. Both sodium and chlorine are needed for all living creatures, including humans, but they are not always eaten in the form of salt, where they are found together in large amounts. Some peoples, like the Yanomami tribe in South America, eat very little salt. Salt is used to control the amount of water in the body. Salty flavor is also one of the basic tastes. Salt cravings may be caused by not having enough minerals, such as sodium chloride, in the body.

Eating too much or too little salt can make health problems more likely to happen, for example hypertension. When food is made, salt was often used as a preservative, to make the food last longer, and as a seasoning, for flavor. Salt is less used as a preservative now as refrigeration is used instead and people are worried that too much salt will make them ill.

There are different ways to get table salt:


Salt

Silk

Silk is a natural fibre made by the silk worm cocoon. Silk fibres are very strong and are often used to make cloth.

The cloth from silk can be made into rugs, bedding, or can be used to write or paint on. In the past, silk was used to make parachutes. The practice of growing silkworms for silk production is called "sericulture".

Most spiders make a natural fibre of their own that is also called silk.

The Chinese invented silk cloth in 3000 B.C. and traded it across the world through the Silk Road because it was very valuable and costly. They were the only ones producing it and selling it to the world until 522 CE.

Silk that is made by the silk worm is made up of two main proteins, sericin and fibroin.

Fibroin is the structural center of the silk and gives it its strength. It is made up of amino acids, which make the fibers strong and hard to break. The tensile strength is there because of hydrogen bonds. When silk is stretched, there is a strong force on these many bonds, so they do not break.

Serecin is the sticky material which surrounds the fibroin and gives it protection from the outside. Silk is resistant to most mineral acids, except for sulfuric acid, which dissolves it. Perspiration gives the silk a yellowish colour.


The Beatles

The Beatles were an English pop / rock band, started in Liverpool, England in 1960. The members were John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison, and Ringo Starr. Most people say they are the most successful and influential band in the history of popular music. The group were a main part of the creation of 1960s counterculture. They began as a skiffle band, and were influenced by 1950s American rock and roll. In their later years, the band was experimental with genres such as different types of rock, classical, and Indian music.

Their main songwriters were Lennon and McCartney. Before The Beatles became popular, they played in clubs in Liverpool and Hamburg over three years between 1960 and 1963, with Stuart Sutcliffe playing bass. They went through many drummers, including Pete Best, before finally asking Ringo Starr to join in 1962. Sutcliffe also quit, meaning Paul McCartney started playing the bass instead. Brian Epstein was their manager and George Martin produced most of their music. Their first single was "Love Me Do", in late 1962. It was a hit and they became popular in the United Kingdom. As they became more popular, their popularity was named "Beatlemania".

By 1964, the Beatles were worldwide stars and led the "British Invasion" of the USA. They made some of the best-selling albums of the 1960s, with twelve studio albums. They broke up in 1970. John Lennon was later murdered in New York City in 1980 and George Harrison died of lung cancer in 2001. McCartney and Starr still make music. In 2023, they released their final single "Now and Then".

Starting in 1956, John Lennon and several of his friends played in a British band called the Quarrymen. Over the next few years, the members of the band changed, and by 1960, the band was called the Beatles. They did not have their first hit until 1962. In February 1963 their song, "Please Please Me", reached the number 1 position on the British charts. This was the first of a record 19 British number 1 singles. They first came to the United States in 1964. They were met at the John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York City by thousands of screaming American teenagers. The Beatles were so popular that they were attacked by screaming fans everywhere they went around the world. The effect they had on their fans was known as 'Beatlemania'. The Beatles made their first live American television appearance on The Ed Sullivan Show on 9 February 1964. About 74 million viewers—about half of the American population—watched the group perform on the show. Beatles songs soon filled the top 5 places on the American top 40 chart - a record that has never been matched.

After the Beatles became so popular in the US, other British bands, such as The Rolling Stones, The Animals, The Kinks and Gerry and the Pacemakers had songs become hits there as well. So many British bands became popular after the Beatles' success that this time became known in America as the "British Invasion".

Toward the mid-1960s, The Beatles became bolder with their style of music. This largely started in 1965, with the release of the album "Rubber Soul", and hit a peak in 1967 with the release of "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band", which was named as the greatest album of all time by Rolling Stone Magazine. They were also named the most influential artists of all time by Rolling Stone magazine, because their music, clothing style, and attitudes shaped much of what was popular among young people in the 1960s. They were all awarded an OBE in 1965 by Harold Wilson. He was accused of having debased and cheapened the honours system. 

The Beatles became so popular that no regular concert venue was big enough for their concerts. This led to them playing the first ever stadium rock concert at Shea Stadium in America, to around 50,000 people. The Beatles stopped touring and playing live music in 1966 because they were sick of audiences screaming so loudly that their music could not be heard. They were also tired of the pressures of touring. Among other things, they were so popular that thousands of people would gather outside the hotels they stayed in day and night meaning that they could never leave their rooms unless they were playing a concert.

The Beatles broke up in 1970 because of the pressures of fame and each member becoming more independent both in their personal lives and musically. In 1973 the two-disc sets "1962-1966" (the "Red Album") and "1967-1970" "(the "Blue Album") were released. These were both re-released on CD in 1993.

The band was still very popular all over the world after they broke up. They are the best-selling music acts of all time, with sales between 600 million to 1 billion records. Their music is still important and still influences many musicians. Musicians today perform cover versions of Beatles songs, and people everywhere still listen to their music. Their song 'Yesterday' has been recorded by more artists than any other song. It is also the song that has been played the most on radio ever.

The Beatles made thirteen albums and twenty-six singles together. They also started their own record label, Apple Records. They made two movies, "A Hard Day's Night" and "Help!", where they appeared as actors. Later they made "Magical Mystery Tour", a television special. "Yellow Submarine" was a cartoon movie based on their music. "Let It Be" showed them working on a new album.

After the Beatles broke up in 1969, all four members started their own solo careers.

John Lennon became a famous peace activist in the late 1960s and early 1970s. He wrote successful songs including "Give Peace a Chance", "Imagine", and "Happy Xmas (War Is Over)". John Lennon was murdered on December 8, 1980 outside his home in New York. Part of Central Park in New York and an airport in Liverpool are named in his honor.

The other three Beatles got together in the 1990s to make two new records. They used demo recordings of two John Lennon songs and added their own new parts. Producer Jeff Lynne helped them so all four members could appear on the songs. The songs were "Free as a Bird" and "Real Love". Both were top 5 hits in the UK in 1995 and 1996.

Paul McCartney started the band Wings with his wife Linda. In 1977 his song, "Mull of Kintyre", became the biggest selling single in British history. It sold even more copies than the Beatles' singles. Paul McCartney was knighted in 1997.

George Harrison and Ringo Starr had early success as solo artists but were less successful later on. Harrison formed the group the Traveling Wilburys in the 80s with other rock legends Bob Dylan, Roy Orbison, Tom Petty, and Jeff Lynne. Harrison died of lung cancer on November 29, 2001. Starr still tours the world with his "All Starr Band" and was knighted in 2018.

The Beatles made 13 very successful albums during their active years from 1960 to 1970. Listed below are the albums made during their career.





