Noh


Noh or No (Japanese:能 Nō) is a major form of classical Japanese musical drama. It started in the 14th century and continues today. Noh is made up of "mai" (dances), "hayashi" (music) and "utai" (words usually in songs). The performers use masks and dance slowly. Zeami and his father Kan'ami brought Noh to its present-day form during the Muromachi period. 

Theater pieces of Noh are classified into 5 groups.

All Noh players are men. They have been taught their skills by their fathers. When a woman or girl appears in the drama, a male actor plays her role with a woman mask.

There are three types of Noh players: "shite", "waki" and "kyogen". "Shite" plays the hero or the heroine. He talks sings and dances. "Waki" (meaning "Side") and plays the sidekick of "Shite". The Waki usually plays the role of a traveler role. He introduces us to the world in the drama. "Kyogen" appears in the middle of the drama if it has two parts, and plays the role of the local citizen. He talks to "Waki" and makes him notice something new or realize what has happened.

"Hayashi" means musical instrumentals. Two kinds of drum ("Tuzumi", "Taiko") and a flute ("Fue") are used in the theater.

Manga

A manga () is a Japanese comic book. 

Manga is drawn by a "mangaka" () (Japanese for cartoonist: an artist of comics). Manga is usually read from right to left. 

The word manga can be both singular and plural, and mean both the medium of comics or a single comic. It is a form of art that is used to draw comics and develop Anime (animated cartoons of manga art). Colors and symbols are important.


Spree

The Spree is a river in the north-east of Germany.
It runs through the centre of Berlin. The river is long.

Liberalism

Liberalism is a way of thinking about politics and government. It emphasizes the idea of freedom, and believes that the best countries are the ones that are freest. Classical liberals all believe that everyone equally deserves to be free to decide for themselves how to think, act, speak and conduct their lives with a minimum of governance or control by others including control by a formal government. This is similar to modern day libertarian beliefs. However, modern liberals have disagreed about what gives people freedom and what takes it away.

Liberals can be broadly divided into two groups. Classical liberals believe that the main threat to freedom is the government. They believe that politicians are often keen to increase their own power, and that they can easily become tyrants. Classical liberals point to examples such as Nazi Germany, Taliban Afghanistan and North Korea as examples of countries led by tyrants. In these countries, human rights are ignored, lots of people are put in prison and worked to death, and there is no way to vote out the government at an election.

Classical liberals therefore emphasise the importance of democracy and individual human rights. They believe that countries need clear, strict and equally applied laws that stop the government from infringing on the rights of individuals. Often, these rights are protected by a constitution. In some countries, such as the United States, the right to own a gun is protected so that people are always able to physically oppose their government if it becomes a tyranny or dictatorship.

Classical liberals often also tend to believe that the government should make few rules about the economy. They often blame economic problems on bad decisions made by out of touch or corrupt individuals controlling the government. They also believe that people have a right to own things, and that overly high taxes can infringe or destroy this human right.

In contrast, modern liberals believe that the main threat to freedom comes from poverty. They suggest that poverty takes away choices from people, and that this stops them from being able to enjoy being a human. They believe that the Industrial Revolution and economic crises such as the Great Depression significantly reduced freedom. Therefore, they believe that the government should use government control and taxes to pay for things for poorer people such as schools, hospitals and even monetary payments while using laws to force people to cooperate. Their goal is to manipulate society to create equality of outcomes which they believe allows everyone to have an equal chance to be happy. This disagrees with the classical liberal view that the government should not control or tax people too much or be in control of the economy.

Classical liberals are often members of conservative organizations and so are sometimes considered right-wing. Modern liberals share many similar views with social democrats and are seen as left-wing.

In the old days, kings or queens told people what to do (a form of government called a Monarchy), and there was very little freedom. A few hundred years ago, philosophers such as John Locke, Simón Bolívar, John Stuart Mill and Jeremy Bentham began to write about freedom. Earlier writers, such as Marcus Aurelius, had written about freedom, but this time the idea caught on. The United States of America was the first country to have a constitution which was based on the ideas of John Locke which were similar to those of Mill and Bentham, and which guaranteed certain rights to all citizens, including freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of religion, the right to assemble (get together in groups), the right to bear arms (weapons), and the right to ask their government to take action (right of petition) or to remove from office rulers they did not like (right of referendum).

Another idea that became popular around this time was the idea of free trade. A leading philosopher who promoted free trade was Adam Smith.

Most of the wealthy countries in the world today are democracies with more or less free trade. Many of the modern liberal democracies have exceptionally high taxes and heavy government control over the lives and finances of their citizens and the national economy. An exception to this rule are the oil-rich countries, not all of which are liberal or democratic. Most of the poor countries in the world are socialist dictatorships, with heavy restrictions on trade and the coercive use of laws or extrajudicial force over their citizens. China is a poor country which is rapidly becoming rich, and is trying the experiment of combining socialist dictatorship with tightly government controlled capitalist trade. Whether it is possible to have the advantages of capitalist trade without other freedoms remains to be seen.

All liberal governments support free elections, and this idea is defended in the legal systems of many countries. However, many countries have elections, but they are not free. This is because opposition candidates cannot use the mass media to publicize their ideas. This situation leads to long-term stability, and to rule by elite groups or dictators. That situation exists in Russia and almost all the former states of the Soviet Union to the east.

The government of the United States was created based on a belief in democracy and personal freedom. However the word "liberalism" has taken on a different meaning in modern times. Liberals in the United States still believe in supporting democracy and freedom, but many liberals also support other ideas. While not all liberals agree on everything, most liberals in the United States agree:


Liberals in the United States are also sometimes called "Progressives". The biggest liberal political party in the modern United States is the Democratic Party. However, the Green Party is seen to be more 'left', or liberal than the Democrats.

Liberals in Australia have many different ideas about government than liberals in the United States. Most liberals in Australia believe that government should not increase taxes, and would like a government that has lower taxes and less power over the economy. The main liberal political party in Australia is the Liberal Party of Australia. The Liberal Party also believes that government should support traditional values and morals, something which many conservatives believe as well.


Zeno's paradoxes

Zeno's paradoxes are a famous set of thought-provoking stories or puzzles created by Zeno of Elea in the mid-5th century BCE. Philosophers, physicists, and mathematicians have argued for 25 centuries over how to answer the questions raised by Zeno's paradoxes. 

Nine paradoxes have been attributed to him. Zeno constructed them to answer those who thought that Parmenides's idea that "all is one and unchanging" was absurd. Three of Zeno's paradoxes are the most famous: two are presented below. They all deal with problems of the apparently continuous nature of space and time.

In the paradox of Achilles and the Tortoise, Achilles is in a footrace with the tortoise. Achilles allows the tortoise a head start of 100 meters, for example. Suppose that each racer starts running at a constant speed, one very fast and one very slow. After some finite time, Achilles will have run 100 meters, bringing him to the tortoise's starting point. During this time, the slower tortoise has run a much shorter distance. It will then take Achilles some further time to run that distance, by which time the tortoise will have advanced farther. It will then take still more time for Achilles to reach this third point, while the tortoise again moves ahead. Thus, whenever Achilles reaches somewhere the tortoise has been, he still has farther to go. Therefore, because there are an infinite number of points Achilles must reach where the tortoise has already been, he can never overtake the tortoise.

Suppose someone wishes to get from point "A" to point "B". First, they must move halfway. Then, they must go half of the remaining way. Continuing in this manner, there will always be some small distance remaining, and the goal would never actually be reached. There will always be another number to add in a series such as formula_1. So, motion from any point "A" to any different point "B" seems an impossibility. Going half the distance to a destination means you won't ever reach it, since you will have to go halfway from wherever you are.

This then is where Zeno's paradox lies: both pictures of reality cannot be true at the same time. Hence, either:

1. There is something wrong with the way we perceive the continuous nature of time,

2. In reality there is no such thing as a discrete, or incremental, amounts of time, distance, or perhaps anything else for that matter, or

3. There is a third picture of reality that unifies the two pictures--the mathematical one and the common sense or philosophical one--that we do not yet have the tools to fully understand.

Few people would bet that the tortoise would win the race against an athlete. But, what is wrong with the argument? 

As one begins adding the terms in the series formula_2, one may notice that the sum gets closer and closer to 1, and will never exceed 1. Aristotle (who is the source for much of what we know about Zeno) noted that as the distance (in the dichotomy paradox) decreases, the time to travel each distance gets exceedingly smaller and smaller. Before 212 BCE, Archimedes had developed a method to get a finite answer for the sum of infinitely many terms which get progressively smaller (such as formula_3).
Modern calculus achieves the same result, using more rigorous methods.

Some mathematicians, such as Carl Boyer, think that Zeno's paradoxes are just mathematical problems, for which modern calculus provides a mathematical solution.
However, Zeno's questions remain problematic if one approaches an infinite series of steps, one step at a time. This is known as a 'supertask'. Calculus does not actually involve adding numbers one at a time. Instead, it determines the value (called a "limit") that the addition is approaching.

Mandrake

Mandrake is the common name of a number of plants in the Nightshade family, genus Mandragora. The roots often look like man or woman, or can be easily made to resemble them. The plant has been used in witchcraft for a long time. 

According to this literature, the plant shrieks in pain, when it is pulled from the ground. This shriek is able to make a person deaf. He might also lose his mind, or even be killed, if he is unprotected. 

Mandrake (Mandragora officinalis) has been used as an anaestethic for a long time. For this, it was usually prepared in an alcoholic solution.

Debian

Debian is a free operating system. It is a distribution of an operating system known as the GNU operating system, which can be used with various kernels, including Linux, kFreeBSD, and Hurd. In combination with these kernels, the operating system can be referred to as Debian GNU/Linux, Debian GNU/kFreeBSD, and Debian GNU/Hurd, respectively. Debian GNU/Linux is one of the most complete and popular GNU/Linux distributions, on which many others, like Ubuntu, are based.

The Debian Project officially started on August 16th, 1993, led by Ian Murdock. He was a computer programmer. Today, in this project, Debian is developed by more than 1,000 computer specialists all over the world.

The name "Debian" was taken after Ian Murdock and his wife Debra. Some people say or pronounce 'deb-ee-n' but others also say 'de-bi-an' or 'de-bai-an' and in Japan 'de-bi-a-n' and so on.

Software packages in development are either uploaded to the project distribution named "unstable" (also known as "sid"), or to the "experimental" repository. Software packages uploaded to "unstable" are normally versions stable enough to be released by the original upstream developer, but with the added Debian-specific packaging and other modifications introduced by Debian developers. These additions may be new and untested. Software not ready yet for the "unstable" distribution is typically placed in the "experimental" repository.

After a version of a software package has remained in "unstable" for a certain length of time (depending on how urgent the changes are), that package is automatically moved to the "testing" distribution. The package's move to testing happens only if no serious ("release-critical") bugs in the package are reported and if other software needed for package functionality qualifies for inclusion in "testing".

Since updates to Debian software packages between official releases do not contain new features, some choose to use the "testing" and "unstable" distributions for their newer packages. However, these distributions are less tested than "stable", and "unstable" does not receive timely security updates. In particular, incautious upgrades to working "unstable" packages can sometimes seriously break software functionality. Since September 9, 2005 the "testing" distributions security updates have been provided by the "testing" security team.

After the packages in "testing" have matured and the goals for the next release are met, the "testing" distribution becomes the next stable release. The latest stable release of Debian ("Buster") is 10.0, released on July 6, 2019. The next release is codenamed ""Bullseye"".

Due to an incident involving a CD vendor who made an unofficial and broken release labeled "1.0", an official 1.0 release was never made.

Debian has been ported to different architectures or platforms. One version, which is based on the developer release (sid) that has been ported to the Xbox is called Xebian.

Debian's official software package repository includes, for example, UNetbootin.



