Reincarnation


Reincarnation is the name of the idea that people are born again in another body after they die and this cycle continues over many lifetimes. Rebirth or "transmigration" is the preferred term for those believers who do not believe in eternal souls. Many Hindus, Jainists, Celtic pagans, Buddhists, and people who follow some African religions believe in reincarnation or rebirth/ transmigration. Carnate means “of flesh”, and reincarnate means to “reenter the flesh".

The belief is held in many religions except Islam and Christianity, although 20 to 30 percent of Christians in western countries also believe in reincarnation.

Ethnologists have documented the belief among nearly all the traditional religions of ethnic groups in Africa, North and South America, and Australia/Oceania. The tribes of north-west North America continue to believe in reincarnation despite negative attitudes towards it on the part of Christian missionaries and churches.

Hindus believe in reincarnation, the process where the soul repeatedly takes on a physical body through being born on Earth. Ancient scriptures of Hinduism starting around 700 BC teach that the soul, or immortal “self”, takes birth time and time again. The soul survives and continues its long journey until it is one with God. Hindus believe that the soul never dies, but inhabits one body after another during its evolutionary journey guided by karma. Karma (literally: action) is the sum of one's actions, and the force that determines one's next reincarnation.

The soul evolves from immaturity to spiritual illumination. Therefore, each reincarnating soul chooses a home and a family which can best fulfill its next step of learning and maturation. Each life on Earth is similar to a class in school. Maturation of the soul on Earth means fulfilling its worldly desires, which can only be experienced through a body.

At death the soul leaves the physical body. But the soul does not die. It lives on in a subtle body called the astral body. The astral body exists in a nonphysical dimension called the astral plane. Here the soul continues to have experiences until it is born again in another physical body as a baby.

After many lifetimes of following dharma (right way of living), the soul is fully matured in love, wisdom and knowledge of God. There is no longer a need for physical birth, for all lessons have been learned, all karmas fulfilled. When all desire has vanished, the person will not be born again anymore.

Ian Stevenson found that the best research evidence supporting the belief in reincarnation comes from the cases of young children who, typically between the ages of 2 and 5, make statements about a previous life they claim to have had before being born. Some 35 per cent of the children also have birthmarks or birth defects which often correspond to injuries or illness experienced by the deceased person who the subject remembers. Medical documents have confirmed this correspondence in more than forty cases.


EBay

eBay is a website. It is a place for online auctions. Anybody can sell almost anything they want there. People can buy many things there as well.

People have to send what they sell themselves, usually using mail. Some items may be collected by the buyer such as items to large or heavy to post. Buyers can transfer the money in any way they want as long as the sellers accept payments made that way. A lot of people use PayPal to transfer the money. PayPal was owned by the same people as eBay until 2015. Margaret Whitman was the CEO of eBay from 1995 to 2008.

eBay was started in 1995 by Pierre Omidyar. It was first called "Auctionweb". The name 'eBay' came later when he tried to register a domain name for his planned name "EchoBay". It was already taken so he shortened the name to 'eBay'.

Millions of items are bought on eBay every day. It is often very cheap to list an item on eBay. Total costs are usually below ordinary auction house costs. Many people look at others' items because they are interested in them.


Gerhard Schröder

Gerhard Schröder was Chancellor of Germany from 1998 to 2005.

He was born on 7 April 1944 in Mossenberg, North Rhine-Westphalia.
After school he learned retail sales in a Lemgo from 1958 to 1961.
After that he made his abitur (highest school exam in Germany) in Bielefeld. Then he studied law in Göttingen. After that he worked as a lawyer.

He joined the Social Democratic Party of Germany in 1963 and became chairman of its youth organisation in 1978.
In 1986 he became a member of the State Parliament of Lower Saxony.
In 1990 he was elected as Prime-Minister of Lower Saxony.

He became the chancellor of Germany in 1998. After elections in 2005, he was replaced by Angela Merkel. He is a member of the SPD (Social Democratic Party of Germany).

Melbourne

Melbourne () is the second-largest city in Australia. It is the capital of Victoria, a state in the south-east of Australia. The population of Melbourne was just over five million in 2020.

"Melbourne" is an ambiguous name. The local City of Melbourne is quite small, as the City of London is. But the metropolitan area of Melbourne is nearly 9,993 km square kilometers (3,858 sq mi).

Melbourne is a multicultural city (it welcomes people and cultures from all over the world). It is famous for its trams. In the centre of Melbourne is a river called the Yarra River. Melbourne also has many big parks and gardens and some beaches.

There are many things to do in Melbourne. Visitors in Melbourne can go to museums, look at art, eat food at restaurants, go to shops and visitors can enjoy of international events like Australian Open and Formula One both in the early year. 

Melbourne has been the winner of the Economist's 'World's most liveable city' award seven times in a row (winner 20102017).

Melbourne was founded in 1835 by John Batman and John Pascoe Fawkner. In 1851, some people found gold near Melbourne. Melbourne grew very quickly because people came from all over the world to look for gold. At the end of the 19th century, Melbourne was called "Marvellous Melbourne". Melbourne was the biggest and most important city in Australia for many years, but now Sydney is larger (but perhaps not more important). The first Australian government was in Melbourne from 1901 to 1927, when it moved to Canberra.

There is a lot of industry (factories) and commerce (buying and selling) in Melbourne. Many of Australia's largest companies and many large companies from other countries work there. It is home to Australia's largest seaport. 

There are a number of universities (the University of Melbourne, Monash University, Deakin University, Victoria University, La Trobe University, RMIT University, Swinburne University and the Australian Catholic University). 

Much of Australia's automotive (car) industry is there, for example the engine maker "Holden", and "Ford" and "Toyota" car builders, Although all three of these companies have announced plans to move their manufacturing plants overseas with Ford already shutting down its manufacturing plant in Broadmeadows.

Many people from different countries live in Melbourne. In fact 43% of the people living in Melbourne were born outside Australia or have parents from another country. All together people from 233 countries live in Melbourne and people with 116 different religions. The population (1991) is 3,156,700, and has grown in 2006 to 3,720,300.

Melbourne has six sister cities. They are:


Melbourne has a moderate oceanic climate ("Cfb") with warm summers and cool, damp and often cloudy winters. The weather is changeable, especially in summer, giving Melbourne a name for having "four seasons in one day". This is because it is located between the hot inland areas in the north and the cool Southern Ocean. 

Cold fronts in the area can bring gales, thunderstorms and hail in spring and summer. Even though it gets severe weather, the city is actually not very rainy with an annual rainfall total of 648.3 mm (25.52 in). Extreme heat can occur in Melbourne, with the highest temperature recorded being 46.4 °C (115.5 °F), on 7 February 2009. Last time Melbourne saw snow was in 1986.


Victoria

Victoria might mean:

Canberra

Canberra is the capital city of Australia. There are 403,468 people who live there. It does not belong to a state but it is in the Australian Capital Territory (ACT).

Canberra was started in 1913 and in the middle of the city is Lake Burley-Griffin. This lake was created especially for the city. There was a competition to design the new capital city of Australia. The competition was won by an architect from Chicago in the United States of America. His name was Walter Burley Griffin. Griffin designed his triangular town as a garden town, so its size expanded over a big area. But as Canberra grew larger and larger, the lake was no longer in the middle of the town, but the people who are in charge of planning the city make sure Canberra is as close to Griffin's original plan as possible. Canberra has a size in area nearly as big as Berlin, but the number of people who live there is much smaller.

Before Canberra was founded, Australia’s two most important cities, Sydney and Melbourne, were arguing which city should be the capital of the continent. First, Melbourne was elected the capital, but in 1908 there was a vote. The result: an area of 2400 square kilometers was given to the country by New South Wales to build Canberra in. This was the place, 300 kilometers away from Sydney and with a distance of 650 kilometers to Melbourne, where a few years later Canberra was built.

The name Canberra is pronounced in various ways and most commonly now as "CAN-brugh" making it sound almost an English name - Canborough ! Some say "CAN-buh-ruh" ; a small number of people may pronounce it "can-BEAR-ruh" ; at an earlier time "can-BERR-a" was very common and that form is still heard although often looked down upon as ignorant and incorrect. But while now an uncommon pronunciation it may be closest to the original name and pronunciation. In the 19th century a farming property on the Limestone Plains was named "Canberry" (or "Camberry") and some think this name is derived in turn from the name of the local tribe - the Ngambri or Kamberra or Camberri people. (Others have suggested the name is derived from an Aboriginal word meaning "meeting place").

Canberra has an oceanic climate ("Cfb" in the Köppen climate classification). Due to Canberra's inland location and fairly high altitude, summers are warm to hot with frequent heat waves and droughts and winters are fairly cold with frequent frosts during the nights. Snow is only common on the mountains.

Tourists who visit Canberra come to see the many national monuments and other famous sights. Some places to visit are the Government House, Parliament House, the High Court of Australia, the Australian War Memorial, the National Gallery of Australia, the Royal Australian Mint, Telstra Tower, the National Library of Australia, and the National Museum of Australia.

Sydney

Sydney ( or ) is a city on the east coast of Australia which is the capital city of New South Wales. About five and a half million people live in Sydney which makes it the biggest city in both Australia and Oceania. 

Sydney started in 1788, when the Captain Arthur Phillip brought the First Fleet to settle in Australia. The settlers were mostly convicts from crowded prisons in England and Ireland, with a group of soldiers to guard them. The country is home to more than 200 spoken languages with a large population of overseas-born residents. The first people to occupy the area were Australian Aboriginals.

In Sydney, there are many famous buildings: the Sydney Opera House, the Queen Victoria Building and the Sydney Harbour Bridge. Sydney has a large harbour and many beaches. The most famous beach is Bondi Beach, some other famous beaches are Coogee Beach and Manly Beach. A popular coastal walk to do is the Bondi to Coogee Coastal Walk. Famous parts of the harbour are Darling Harbour and Circular Quay. The Royal National Park is a popular and famous park in southern Sydney.

Sydney has many things to see and do. These include visiting Taronga Zoo (a park for animals) on the northern side of the harbour, eating food, looking at art or watching sports (like cricket or rugby) or walking down George Street which has many nice shops. Sydney has some of Australia's best shopping, and the Blue Mountains are about two hours' drive away to the west. Many people go to Sydney City to watch the great fireworks display over the harbour on New Year's Eve. Sydney holds events throughout the year that attract tourists from around the world, some namely events are Vivid Sydney, Royal Easter Show, and more.

Sydney is home to a range of events that happen throughout the year, drawing many tourists and visitors to the city. One of Sydney's biggest event holding convention centre is the newly rebuilt International Convention Centre located by Darling Harbour, Sydney.

High-profile global events held in Sydney were: 2007 APEC Leaders Conference, 2008 World Youth Day and the 2014 G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors meeting.

Vivid Sydney is held every year in June in the winter and is a display of light shows, art installations and music from local and international artists. In 2016, Vivid Sydney ran for 23 nights from May 27 to June 18.

The Royal Easter Show is held in Sydney Olympic Park throughout the Easter public holiday period in April. It is a family attraction with rides, carnival games, showbags and food tents. There are also agriculture shows where children can learn more about farm animals as well as animal feeding areas. Shows such as woodcutting and animal competitions are popular every year.

Mercedes Benz Fashion weekend runs for two days every year and features runway shows by leading Australian designers. The event is attended by fashion journalists, magazine editors, bloggers and fashion buyers. There are also Styling Sessions and VIP parties at the home of fashion week in Carriageworks in the inner city suburb of Redfern.

Sydney is a city located on the East Coast of Australia. It is currently the largest city in Australia, and the continent of Oceania. Sydney is known for having been the original landing spot for the British. It is situated next to the Blue Mountains. Sydney has more than 650 suburbs, and 38 local government areas. 

Sydney lies on a drowned coastline on the east coast of New South Wales, where the ocean level has risen up to flood deep river valleys carved in the Sydney Triassic sandstone, which was laid down about about 200 million years ago. Sydney has over two major regions: the Cumberland Plain, a mostly flat region lying to the west of Sydney Harbour, and the Hornsby Plateau, a tableland north of the Harbour. Sydney's native plant species are mostly eucalyptus trees, and its soils are red and yellow in colour. Sydney has nine rivers and just over a hundred creeks. 

Sydney's main vegetation communities are grassy woodlands or savannas, which are open woodlands that feature hard-leaved shrubs, trees like eucalyptuses and acacias, and grass in the understory. Dry and wet forests are common as well, and as well as very small rainforest communities.

Sydney has a humid subtropical climate with warm to hot summers and cool winters, and rainfall spread throughout the year. Hotter temperatures are recorded inland in the western suburbs, because the coast is moderated by the ocean. Rainfall is higher in the first half of the year when easterly winds are common, and lower in late winter/early spring when winds are more westerly, but rain has been very changeable in recent years.

East coast lows bring heavy rainfall to the Sydney area, typically in autumn to early winter. In the warm months, rain comes in short heavy falls in the afternoons, usually with a thunderstorm. Snow is unheard of, but major snowfall was last reported in Sydney on 28 June 1836. The El Niño–Southern Oscillation are an important feature in Sydney's weather patterns: drought and bushfire on the one hand, and storms and flooding on the other.

The highest recorded temperature in the city was , which was experienced on 18 January 2013. The highest recorded temperature in the west was , observed on 4 January 2020 in the suburb of Penrith. Hot days are usually ended by a southerly buster, a windy sea breeze that comes from the southeast. While Sydney CBD (Observatory Hill) has never recorded frost, the far western suburbs usually get frost in winter. The ultraviolet index rating in the summer averages at 12, but can reach as high as 13. Windspeed recorded in Sydney Airport averages at 24.3 km/h (15.0 mph), making Sydney the windiest capital city in Australia.

Greenhouse effect

The greenhouse effect occurs when certain gases in the Earth's atmosphere (the air around the Earth) trap infrared radiation. This makes the planet become warmer, similar to the way a greenhouse becomes warmer. 

The most important greenhouse gases in Earth's atmosphere are: water vapor, carbon dioxide(CO), and methane. When there is more greenhouse gas in the air, the air holds more heat. This is why more greenhouse gases cause climate change and global warming.

The greenhouse effect is natural. It is important for life on Earth. Without the greenhouse effect, the Earth's average temperature would be around 18 or –19 degrees Celsius (0 or 1 degree Fahrenheit). Earth would be locked in an ice age. Because of the greenhouse effect, the Earth's actual average temperature is 14 degrees Celsius (57 degrees Fahrenheit). 

The problem is that recently, the greenhouse effect has become stronger. This is because humans have been burning large amounts of fossil fuels, which releases carbon dioxide. Since carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas, it has caused the planet to warm over the past 150 years.
About 10,000 years ago, before people started burning large amounts of fossil fuels, there were 260 to 280 parts per million (ppm) of carbon dioxide (CO2) in the atmosphere, but now there is over 400 ppm. Most scientists say that having 350 ppm or less is safe for the environment and that species on the planet can adapt to this level. Higher levels can make severe problems for animal and marine life that are already being seen today, such as ocean acidification.

The greenhouse effect was first proposed by Joseph Fourier in 1824. Mars, Venus and other planets with atmospheres also have greenhouse effects. The effect on Venus is especially strong because Venus has so much CO. This is why Venus is hotter than Mercury, even though Mercury is closer to the sun. The first person to predict that carbon dioxide from the burning of fossil fuels (and other combustion processes) could cause global warming was Nobel Prize winner Svante Arrhenius.



