Florence


Florence () is the capital city of the region of Tuscany ("Toscana"), in Italy. From 1865 to 1870 the city was also the capital of the Kingdom of Italy. Florence is on the Arno River. The city has a population of around 370,000 people, and a suburban population of over 2,000,000 people. The greater area has around 956,000 people. The city was a center of medieval European trade and finance. It is often considered the birthplace of the Italian Renaissance and was long ruled by the Medici family. Florence is also famous for its fine art and architecture. It is said that, of the 1,000 most important European artists of the second millennium, 350 lived or worked in Florence.

Bridges:

Museums:

Palaces:

Churches:


The football team of Florence is the Fiorentina.

The food of Florence is based more on peasant eating rather than expensive cooking. Most of foods are based on meat. The whole animal was usually eaten. Many kinds of tripe, (trippa) and (lampredotto) were commonly served. They are still sold at the food carts in the city. Antipasti include "crostini toscani", sliced bread topped with a chicken liver-based pâté. Also common are sliced meats (mainly prosciutto and salami). They are often served with melon when it is in season. Tuscan bread has no salt or butter. It is used often in Florentine meals. It is very common in the local soups, "ribollita" and "pappa al pomodoro", Both soups are usually served with local olive oil. The bread is also used in the salad of bread and fresh vegetables called "panzanella" that is served in summer. The most famous main course is the "bistecca alla fiorentina". It is a huge steak of Chianina beef that is cooked over hot charcoal. It is served very rare with the "tagliata", sliced rare beef served on a bed of arugula, often with slices of parmesan cheese on top.

Florence has a mixed Mediterranean climate and humid subtropical climate, with hot and humid summers and cool and damp winters. Florence is especially hot from June to August (surrounded by hills in a valley cut by the Arno river). Summer temperatures are higher than those along coastlines. Winter has some snow.


Milan

Milan (Italian: "Milano"; ancient "Medhelan" "Mediolanum" (City in the middle of the lands)) is a city in northern Italy. Milan is the capital of the Milano Provence and of the Lombardy Region. It is populated by 1,371,498 inhabitants.
It is the most populated province in Italy, and it is the second biggest city in Italy (after Rome).

Milan is the fashion capital of the world and its important influence on design, economics, opera, and the media make it amongst the world's top 18 Global cities, along with Moscow, Buenos Aires and Kuala Lumpur. 

Mediolanum was founded by Insubres, a Celtic people. It was captured by the Romans in 222 BC. Milan became very successful under the Roman Empire.

Milan was ruled by the Spanish in the 1500s and the Austrians in the 1700s. During the Renaissance and the Romantic periods, Milan was a major cultural center in the whole of Europe, famous for its literature and opera.

During the war, the city was badly affected by Allied bombings and during the 50s and 60s the city grew into being the wealthy and industrial metropolis it is today.

Glamorgan

Glamorgan, also known as Glamorganshire is a county in Wales in the west of Great Britain. Glamorgan was a medieval kingdom. Its capital is Cardiff.

The county is home to over a million people, which is more than one third the total of Wales. It contains the cities of Cardiff, Swansea and most of the valleys that are famous for coal mining in the past.


Cornwall

Cornwall (Cornish: "Kernow") is a county in the far southwest of England in the United Kingdom. Truro is the capital of the Unitary Authority that has administered Cornwall since 2009. Truro is also the only city. It has the cathedral of the Diocese of Truro. Cornwall is home to the Cornish Language and the Cornish people. The Duchy of Cornwall is an estate which belongs to the Prince of Wales (who is also the Duke of Cornwall), but only part of it is in Cornwall. Cornwall is split from Devon by the River Tamar. Cornwall is home to Newquay, a popular town and holiday resort.

Cornwall has been an important area for the mining of tin since 2400BC. In the 19th century large amounts of both tin and copper were mined in Cornwall. Mining used to be the major industry in Cornwall but now neither tin or copper are mined, however China clay is still mined in small amounts.

As Mining was phased out, the tourism industry grew. Five million tourists visit Cornwall every year, most of which are from within the United Kingdom. This makes up about a quarter of the Cornish economy and supports about 1 in 5 Cornish jobs.

As a mostly rural county, Cornwall naturally has a lot of farmers and farmland, with 4.9% of people in Cornwall working in agriculture. The Cornish climate and soil is not great for most crops. It is good for grass to feed dairy cows and bullocks. Flowers and vegetables such as cauliflowers are also produced in Cornwall and taken to be sold in English markets. There is also a lot of moorland parts of which are used for grazing sheep.

Cornwall is famous for being the home of the Cornish pasty and Cornish clotted cream. 12.1% of jobs in Cornwall are in the food industry. Cornwall is also known for cream teas but the jam is spread on the scones or splits first (the opposite of what is done in Devon).

Cornwall has a population of approx. 550,000 and its population is divided almost equally between native Cornish and incomers from elsewhere in the UK, mostly England. 10% of people in Cornwall consider themselves as descendants of the indigenous Celtic Britons, and not English, and are recognised by Celtic organisations worldwide as such.

Some people in Cornwall have revived Cornish, a very old recently extinct Celtic language, which is related to Breton and to Welsh. There is also a dialect of the English language spoken in Cornwall known as Cornish-English.

Cornwall has its own flag. It's linked to the patron saint of Cornwall, St Piran, who is also the patron saint of tin miners.

Bodmin Moor is the largest and highest of the granite moors of Cornwall; all the high hills of Cornwall are in Bodmin Moor. The climate is generally mild, with much frontal rain. The varied scenery and historical monuments attract many tourists to Cornwall. Tintagel Castle is on the north coast of Cornwall. Falmouth harbour is one of the largest natural harbours in the world. Newquay is one of the larger holiday resorts and popular with surfers. Land's End is the headland at the far southwest of Cornwall and Lizard Point is the most southerly headland in the county. The main rivers of Cornwall are the River Camel whose estuary is next to Padstow on the north coast, the River Fal which flows into the English Channel east of Falmouth, and the River Fowey which flows into the English Channel at Fowey. Apart from Truro, the county town, the main towns of Cornwall are St Austell, Saltash, Bodmin, Launceston, Falmouth, Camborne, Redruth and Penzance.

The most important transport links between Devon and Cornwall are the Plymouth to Penzance railway line and the A30 and A38 major roads.

The Isles of Scilly are a group of islands south west of Cornwall and forming part of the county. The Isles of Scilly have a long history of shipwrecks because of the rocky coasts. There are 530 known shipwrecks around the isles.

Tintagel Castle

Tintagel Castle is in Cornwall, a county in England.

Reginald, Earl of Cornwall built the castle on Tintagel Head (a piece of land by the sea) in about 1150. In Cornish legend, this is the place where the old Kings of Cornwall lived. Reginald built the castle for propaganda, not for military use; he wanted people to think of Camelot when they thought about him. Some people say King Arthur was born at the castle, because traditional stories say the King of Cornwall looked after him when he was a child.

The modern village of Tintagel was first called Trevena. Then, in the 1850s, it got a new name, to bring in tourism because of the King Arthur and Camelot legends. Tintagel is only the name of land by the sea.

Gwyneth Paltrow

Gwyneth Kate Paltrow (born September 28, 1972) is an American actress and singer. She was born in Los Angeles, California. 

Her father was movie director Bruce Paltrow. Her mother is actress Blythe Danner; her parents are second cousins. Her brother is director Jake Paltrow. Her uncle is singer-actor Harry Danner. Her half-cousin is actress Katherine Moennig. She studied Spanish in Talavera of the Queen, Spain. Paltrow married Coldplay singer Chris Martin on December 5, 2003. The couple separated in 2014. They have a daughter, Apple (born May 14, 2004) and son, Moses (born April 8, 2006). Since 2008, she plays Pepper Potts in the Marvel Cinematic Universe which is her most famous role.


Sarah Michelle Gellar

Sarah Michelle Gellar (born April 14, 1977) is an American actress. After several television acting roles during the 1990s, Gellar became famous for playing Buffy Summers in the television series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". After "Buffy", she started acting in movies. She has starred in the family movies "Scooby-Doo" (2002) and "" (2004), the movie "Harvard Man" (2001), and the horror movies "The Return" (2006), "The Grudge 2" (2006), "The Grudge" (2004) and "I Know What You Did Last Summer" (1997). She won an award for her part in the 1999 movie "Cruel Intentions".

Gellar was born in New York City. She is the only child of Rosellen Greenfield and Arthur Gellar. Both of her parents were Jewish from Hungary and Russia, but Gellar's family had a Christmas tree during the holidays while she was growing up. In 1984, her parents divorced. She was raised by her mother on New York's Upper East Side. Gellar and her father did not have a good relationship from this time until his death from liver cancer on October 9, 2001. She went to school at New York's Columbia Grammar & Preparatory School and the Professional Children's School. Gellar was a very good student and was a good figure skater. Her best friend was Melissa Joan Hart. Several years later, Hart was the star of the series "Clarissa Explains It All" and "Sabrina, the Teenage Witch".

At the age of four, Gellar was seen by an talent agent in a restaurant in Uptown Manhattan. Two weeks later, she auditioned for a part in "An Invasion Of Privacy", a movie made for television. The movie starred Valerie Harper, Carol Kane and Jeff Daniels. At the audition, Gellar read the lines for both her own character and Harper's character. The directors thought this was very impressive and she got the job. A short while later, she got a part in a television commercial for the fast food restaurant Burger King. In it, she said bad things about McDonald's and said she only ate at Burger King. Gellar made other commercials while doing other acting job. Some of these jobs were playing Emily in an episode of the TV series "", appearing in a small role in the Chevy Chase comedy movie "Funny Farm" and in the movie "High Stakes". She was also in Europe working on the TV series "Crossbow". In 1991, she played a young Jacqueline Bouvier in "A Woman Named Jackie". 

Gellar's major break came in 1992. She starred in the teen soap opera "Swan's Crossing". After that, she got a part in another soap opera, "All My Children". She playing the character Kendall Hart, the long-lost daughter of character Erica Kane (Susan Lucci). In 1995, at the age of eighteen, she won a Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Younger Leading Actress in a Drama Series for her work as Kendall Hart.

Gellar left "All My Children" in 1995. People were saying that her and Susan Lucci did not get along and this caused problems with them working together. She got the main role in the 1997 TV series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". She played a teenager who had to fight many of supernatural enemies with the help of the Scooby Gang and her Watcher (a mentor). The show was well liked by both the critics and the audience. Another series, ("Angel"), was made based on characters from "Buffy". "Buffy" was on television for seven seasons and a total of 144 episodes. During the show, Buffy, and Gellar also, became cult icons in the United States and the UK. They were a symbol of "empowered" women. Gellar also sang several of the songs during the "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" musical episode "Once More, with Feeling".

During the show's later years, Gellar said she did not like some parts of season six and the seventh season's final episode. After the show ended, Gellar said that she did not want to be in a "Buffy" movie. Since that time, she has said she might do it if the script is good enough. 

Gellar's picture has been used on the covers of "Cosmopolitan, Glamour, FHM, Rolling Stone", and other magazines. She was part of Maxim's "Hot 100" list in 2002, 2003, and 2005, and in FHM's "100 Sexiest Women" of 2005. In 1998, she was named one of "People" Magazine's "50 Most Beautiful People (in the World)". Gellar has also been in the Stone Temple Pilots music video "Sour Girl" and is a celebrity spokesperson for the cosmetics company, Maybelline.

After "Buffy", Gellar tried to use her television fame for a movie career. Some of her movies were well liked, others were not. After roles in the popular horror movies "I Know What You Did Last Summer" and "Scream 2" (both 1997), she starred in the 1999 movies "Simply Irresistible", a romantic comedy, and "Cruel Intentions". "Cruel Intentions" was a small hit at the box office. It made over $38 million in the United States. The movie had a lesbian kiss between Gellar and co-star Selma Blair that won the "Best Kiss" award at the 2000 MTV Movie Awards. Critic Roger Ebert said that Gellar is "effective as a bright girl who knows exactly how to use her act as a tramp".

Gellar starred as Daphne in the box office success "Scooby-Doo" (2002), a live-action version of the cartoon series. Gellar, Prinze and their friends Matthew Lillard and Linda Cardellini were also in the sequel "" (2004), which made less money than the first movie. Gellar's next movie was the 2004 horror movie "The Grudge". It was very well liked. Gellar appeared in the sequel "The Grudge 2". It opened on October 13, 2006. She has also starred in several movies that have yet to be released, including "Southland Tales", "The Air I Breathe" and "The Girls' Guide to Hunting And Fishing".

Gellar met her husband Freddie Prinze, Jr. during filming of the 1997 teen horror movie "I Know What You Did Last Summer" but the two did not begin a intimate relationship until 2000. They were engaged to be married in April 2001. They got married in Jalisco, Mexico on September 1, 2002.

In 2004, while filming "The Grudge" in Japan, Gellar visited the famous Japanese swordmaker Shoji Yoshihara (Kuniie III) and bought a Katana from him as a birthday gift for her husband. Gellar found out that she needed permission from the government to take the sword out of the country. After she got permission, she said that it was incredibly difficult to do.

Gellar and her husband have two children together — a daughter born in 2009 and a son born in 2012.



