Salt Lake City


Salt Lake City is a city in the United States of America. It is the capital and largest city of the state of Utah. It was founded by the Mormons and is the official headquarters of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is named after the Great Salt Lake, which it is near. The city's population was 199,723 in 2020.

The city was founded in 1847 by Brigham Young and his Mormon followers. They extensively irrigated and cultivated the arid valley. Due to its proximity to the Great Salt Lake, the city was originally named "Great Salt Lake City"–the word "great" was dropped from the official name in 1868. Although Salt Lake City is still home to the headquarters of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), less than half the population of Salt Lake City proper is Mormon today.

Immigration of international LDS members, mining booms, and the construction of the first transcontinental railroad initially brought economic growth, and the city was nicknamed the "Crossroads of the West". It was traversed by the Lincoln Highway, the first transcontinental highway, in 1913, and presently two major cross-country freeways, I-15 and I-80, intersect in the city. Salt Lake City has since developed a strong outdoor recreation tourist industry based primarily on skiing. It was host to the 2002 Winter Olympics. It is the industrial banking center of the United States.

In 1847 pioneer Jane Dillworth held the first classes in her tent for the children of the first LDS families. In the last part of the 19th century, there was much controversy over how children in the area should be educated. LDS and non-LDS parents could not agree on the level of religious influence in schools. Today, many LDS youths in grades 9 through 12 attend some form of religious instruction, referred to as seminary. Students are released from public schools at various times of the day to attend seminary. LDS seminaries are usually located on church-owned property adjacent to the public school and within walking distance.
Because of high birth rates and large classrooms, Utah spends less per student than any other state. At the same time, Utah spends more per capita than any state with the exception of Alaska. Recently, money was approved for the reconstruction of more than half of the elementary schools and one of the middle schools in the Salt Lake City School District, which serves most of the area within the city limits. There are twenty-three K-6 elementary schools, five 7-8 middle schools, three 9-12 high schools (Highland, East, and West, with the former South High being converted to the South City campus of the Salt Lake Community College), and an alternative high school (Horizonte) located within the school district. In addition, Highland has recently been selected as the site for the charter school Salt Lake School for the Performing Arts (SPA). Many Catholic schools are located in the city, including Judge Memorial High School. Rowland Hall-St. Mark's School, established in 1867 by Episcopal Bishop Daniel Tuttle, is the area's premier independent school.

The Salt Lake City Public Library system consists of the main library downtown, and five branches in various neighborhoods. The main library, designed by renowned architect Moshe Safdie, opened in 2003. In 2006, the Salt Lake City Public Library was named "Library of the Year" by the American Library Association.

Colleges in Salt Lake City include the University of Utah, Westminster College, Salt Lake Community College, Stevens-Henager College, Eagle Gate College, The Art Institute of Salt Lake City and LDS Business College. Utah State University and BYU also operate education centers in the city. There are also many trade and technical schools such as Healing Mountain Massage School and the Utah College of Massage Therapy. The University of Utah has good research and medical programs. It was one of the original four universities to be connected to ARPANET, the predecessor to the Internet, in 1969, and was also the site of the first artificial heart transplant in 1982.


Nagano (city)

Nagano () is a city in Japan. It is the capital of Nagano Prefecture (). Nagano has been recognized as a core city since 1999.

As of October 1, 2007, 2,182,190 people lived in Nagano.

In 1998, the Olympic Games were held in Nagano.

Barcelona

Barcelona is the capital city of Catalonia, which is a region of Spain. Barcelona is the largest city on the Mediterranean coast. The city is between the rivers of "Llobregat" and "Besòs", and south of the Pyrenees mountains. It has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa" in the Köppen climate classification). Most rain falls in autumn and spring, and the least rain falls in winter and summer. The average rainfall is relatively low, due to the rain shadow from the mountains.

In 1992, Barcelona hosted the Summer Olympic Games. Many new parks were opened and other significant changes to the city were made. One example is opening the new beaches in the Poble Nou area.

In 2007, about 1.6 million people lived in Barcelona. Around 3.1 million people live in the Metropolitan Area and 4.9 million people live in the Urban Region. Barcelona is the second most populated city in Spain, and the tenth in the European Union.

Barcelona is home to football team F.C. Barcelona.

The origin of Barcelona is unclear. The ruins of an early settlement have been found dating to earlier than 5000 BC.

During the Roman Empire, Barcelona was a colony of the Western Roman Empire called "Barcino" (full name was "Colonia Faventia Julia Augusta Pia Barcino)." A clear example of the Roman heritage in Barcelona is the preserved "Barri Gòtic" (Gothic Quarter) in the center of city.

In the Middle Age (5th century), Barcelona was conquered by the Visigoths. King Athaulf moved his capital here for a short time. In 511, a battle between the Ostrogoths and Visigoths took place near the city in which the Ostrogoths won.

In 8 century, Barcelona was conquered by the Moors.

Until the 15th century, Barcelona was the leading slave trade centre. Barcelona was a centre of Catalan separatism for a long time. 

During the Spanish Civil War, Barcelona was Republican city. 

Barcelona's culture roots go back 2000 years. 

The city is very religious, so there are many cathedrals in it. The most famous of them is Sagrada Familia. Barcelona Cathedral is also popular among the tourists. 

Barcelona has a large number of theaters such as "Palau de la Música Catalana, Liceu etc." Barcelona has an symphony orchestra. 

There are also many museums. For example, Museu Nacional d'Art, Museu Picasso, Museu Marítim, Museu d Història de la Ciutat Barcelona, Museu d’Art Contemporani de Barcelona and Museu de la Xocolata. 

The street called La Rambla is a place for street performances such as mime performances. The Sonar Festival and Primavera Sound Festival are two major pop music festivals that take place yearly there. 

Barcelona has one of Europe's largest aquariums – Aquarium Barcelona. 

"El Periódico de Catalunya, La Vanguardia" and "Ara" are three major newspapers of Barcelona.

Many popular films were also shot in Barcelona. The examples are "Todo sobre mi madre (1999) by" Pedro Almodóvar", REC (2007), Salvador (2006), Vicky Christina Barcelona (2008), Biutiful (2010), Tres metros sobre el cielo. Tengo ganas de ti (2012)."

Barcelona was for a long time an industrial city. Currently, factories have been moved to the periphery, a fact that has allowed us to transform the former industrial neighbourhoods in the residential areas, from research to products with high added value and services. The most representative industrial sectors of Barcelona are the textile industry, chemical, pharmaceutical, automotive, electronics, medical Industry and printing. Services Barcelona stands out for its logistics activities, publishing and computer.
Barcelona has a port, metro, airport, modern passengers trains by Renfe company and tram systems called Trambaix and Trambesos. 

Barcelona is one of the main railway hubs in Spain. The main railway station is "Sants Estació." 

Barcelona has also a metered taxi fleet. 

Barcelona is a very sports city. It hosted the highly successful 1992 Summer Olympics. 

FC Barcelona is a sport club, one of the largest and the second richest in the world.

Barcelona is one of the most important tourist destinations in Europe, with millions of people visiting every year. The city is famous for its 19th century modernist architecture. The best known of those buildings was designed by Antoni Gaudi. It is the unfinished church Sagrada Familia, which is the symbol of Barcelona.

It is known for its tapas food, a meze. Among the dishes, the also popular are paella, gazpacho, jamon, crema catalana and sangria. 

The popular stores for shopping are Zara, Massimo Dutti, Bimba y Lola, Adolfo Dominguez. 


Barcelona has a very good higher education. The most prominent university is the University of Barcelona which has a long history. 

The main language of Barcelona is considered Catalan. Spanish is the second popular language. 

(write about the problems of language) 

Barcelona has sister relationships with many places worldwide:



