Kamishibai


Kami-shibai (Japanese: 紙芝居) is a storytelling performance with picture cards, and is a traditional Japanese entertainment for children. In Japanese "Kami" means paper and "shibai" means drama or enternainment. The performer tells a story and shows pictures from scene to scene. Kami-shibai is a bidirectional media which is comprised of actions and reactions between a performer and audiences. With the spread of television, kami-shibai went out of date. 

Murasaki Shikibu

Murasaki Shikibu is a nickname; her real name is unknown. 

Murasaki was born in Kyoto. She was born into the . Her father, Fujiwara Tametoki, was not a very nice father and when Murasaki got older he confessed that he regretted she was not a boy.

In the year 997, Murasaki married her second cousin, Fujiwara Nobutake, at age 20. In 999, they had a daughter, Kenshi, who also became a poet. Fujiwara Nobutake died about 1001.

Murasaki started as a writer soon after her husband's unexpected death. She was recognized immediately, and she was asked to the imperial court as a tutor to Empress Shoshi ( Joto Mon'in, 988–1074), daughter of the statesman Fujiwara Michinaga (966–1027). Murasaki joined the court of in 1006, probably for her skills as an author.

Murasaki started writing her diary in 1008, and finished in 1010. Her diary describes her Chinese lessons with her brother Nobunori (980?–1011), daily life and how much she missed her husband after his death.

She died in Kyoto, around the year 1020.

"The Tale of Genji" is split into 54 different books, and is made up of 795 different poems. It is one of the earliest novels in Japanese, and is often thought of as the first novel in the world. It is a classic of Japanese literature. The masterpiece was about the court life of Prince Genji, and his wife, Aoi in 10th-century Japan. Prince Genji was the illegitimate son of an emperor, and the text is about his relationships in court. "The Tale of Genji" included many beautiful scroll paintings.

Pepsin

Pepsin is an enzyme. It acts on proteins in the stomach, which has a low pH because of the Hydrochloric acid. It works best at a pH of about 1.5. It will not work at a pH above 6. 

It was the first animal enzyme to be discovered. Theodor Schwann discovered it in 1836.

Pepsin is used to make cheese.

PH

pH is a scale of acidity from 0 to 14. It tells how acidic or alkaline a substance is. 
More acidic solutions have lower pH. More alkaline solutions have higher pH. Substances that aren't acidic or alkaline (that is, neutral solutions) usually have a pH of 7.
Acids have a pH that is less than 7. Alkalis have a pH that is greater than 7.

pH is a measure of the of protons (H) in a solution. introduced this concept in the year 1909. The p stands for the German "potenz", meaning power or concentration, and the H for the hydrogen ion (H).

The most common formula for calculating pH is:

[H] indicates the concentration of H ions (also written [HO], the equal concentration of ions), measured in moles per litre (also known as molarity).

However, the correct equation is actually:

where formula_3 indicates the activity of H ions. But, this equation in most cases provides the same value as the more common formula, so in introductory chemistry the previous equation is given as the definition of pH.

Most substances have a pH in the range of 0 to 14, although "extremely" acidic or alkaline substances may have pH < 0, or pH > 14.

Alkaline substances have, instead of hydrogen ions, a concentration of hydroxide ions (OH).

Certain dyes change colour depending on whether they are in an acid solution or an alkaline solution . pH indicator is a chemical compound added in small amounts to a solution so the pH (acidity or basicity) of the solution can be seen. The pH indicator is a chemical detector for hydronium ions (HO) or hydrogen ions (H). Normally, the indicator causes the colour of the solution to change depending on the pH.

Typical indicators are , , , , and . They each change colour at different points on the pH scale, and can be used together as a universal indicator.

Another way is to use litmus paper, which is based on a natural pH indicators. The paper can tell you how strong the chemical is, whether it is a stronger acid or a stronger base.

Neutralization can be summed up by the equation:



