Triangle (disambiguation)


In geometry, a triangle is the flat shape formed by joining three points (not in a straight line) with straight line segments. A triangle is a three sided polygon.

In music, a triangle is a musical instrument that is made from a metal tube. It is in the shape of a triangle. It is open at one corner, and when it is hit with a metal stick, it makes a sound.

Square

A square is a shape with four equal sides and four corners that are all right angles (90 degrees). The diagonals of a square also cross at right angles. The angle between any diagonal and a side of a square is 45 degrees. A square has rotational symmetry of four. It has four lines of regular symmetry. A square with vertices "A", "B", "C" and "D" can be written as formula_1.

A square is a type of rectangle with all sides of equal length. However, while a square is a type of rectangle and rhombus, the opposite does not need to be true.

A square is also the 2-dimensional analogue of a cube.

If the length of side "a" is known, then we have that:

If the length of diagonal "d" is known, then we have that:


Computer hardware

Computer hardware or hardware means the physical parts that make up a computer.

Some examples are:

Hardware needs software to tell it what to do. Without software, the hardware cannot be used.

Meat

Meat is animal (and/or human) flesh which is food. Most often is used to describe skeletal muscle and fat that is found with it. Types of meat include beef and veal from cattle, pork, ham and bacon from pigs, mutton from sheep, "venison" from deer, fish, insects, and poultry from chickens, ducks and turkeys. The word meat is also used for sausages and for non-muscle organs which are used for food, for example liver, brain, and kidneys.

In the meat processing industry, the word "meat" can be used to mean only the flesh of mammalian species such as pigs, cattle, etc. but does not include fish, insects and poultry. 

Red meat refers to meat that is obtained from mammals, particularly beef, pork, lamb, and veal. It is characterized by its reddish color, primarily due to the presence of myoglobin, a protein responsible for oxygen storage in muscle tissues. 

Animals such as members of the cat family that mainly eat animals are called carnivores.

Meat is an important part of the diet of many people because it has protein. Protein helps the growth and healing of a body and gives energy. Meat is a "high-protein" food, but costs more than other foods like bread and vegetables. Meat is also a source of B vitamins. People who cannot afford meat, or who do not like to eat it need to find other ways to get enough protein in their diet. Beans and certain nuts are also high in protein, but plant protein might not be as easy to absorb as animal protein. People that choose not to eat meat are called vegetarians, and those who do not eat any animal products are known as vegans.

Red meat is darker-coloured meat (usually form mammals), different from white meat such as chicken or fish. There is a greater risk of diseases and parasites when eating raw meat, but there are some special dishes which are made from raw meat. Examples are steak tartare, sushi, oysters. The meat used in these dishes are usually of high quality.

According to the National Health Service (NHS), meat is defined as "meat from cattle, sheep, swine, and goats, including veal, lamb, and pork".

Beef refers to the flesh of mature cattle, specifically distinguished from veal. It is a type of red meat known for its firm texture, marbling, and rich flavor. High-quality beef has lean, velvety, well-marbled flesh of bright red color.

Pork is the meat derived from hogs, typically slaughtered between six months and one year old. It is classified as red meat and is widely consumed worldwide. Pork comes in various cuts and is known for its versatility.

Lamb meat is the tender and mild-flavored meat from young sheep, typically under 12 months old. It is also classified as red meat and is rich in essential amino acids, high-quality protein, B vitamins, zinc, and iron. Lamb is lean compared to other red meats and contains unique antioxidants like CLA.

Goat meat, also known as mutton, is the flesh of goats and is considered red meat. It is consumed in various cuisines around the world. Goat meat is lean, tender, and has a distinct flavor.

Chicken meat is made up of different edible portions such as the breast, thighs, drumsticks, and wings. It is a widely enjoyed and flexible type of poultry meat that is abundant in protein and low in fat. With a variety of cuts to choose from, chicken can be utilized in numerous recipes and prepared using various cooking techniques.

Duck meat is obtained from various types of ducks, such as Peking, Serati, and Balinese ducks. Ducks are waterfowl known for their tender and tasty meat, thanks to their higher fat content. Duck meat is considered a white meat, similar to chicken, and can be used as an alternative in cooking. It offers a distinct flavor and is appreciated by many.

Due to religious dietary law, halal (حلال), meaning permissible in Arabic, is used as a visual marker for Muslims in shops and on products. Likewise kosher means food sourced and prepared according to Jewish tradition.

Anders Celsius

Anders Celsius (27 November 1701 – 25 April 1744) was a Swedish astronomer. Celsius was born in Uppsala in Sweden. Much of his work was in what was later called Geodesy. 

He is more famous for developing the Celsius temperature scale when he worked on meteorology (a science about weather conditions). It later became an the international standard. One of his good friends Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit invented the Fahrenheit scale for the thermometer. 

Tuvalu

Tuvalu is a small island country in the Pacific Ocean. In the past, it was the Ellice Islands. It was part of Gilbert and Ellice Islands with Kiribati. It is a monarchy.

Tuvalu is getting smaller. If the sea level keeps rising at the same rate, this country will be covered by water in about 50 years.

The most important languages spoken in Tuvalu are Tuvaluan and English.

The United States and Tuvalu signed a treaty of friendship in 1979, when the US gave up their claim to Tuvalu for the islands of Funafuti, Nukefetau, Nukulaelae, and Nurakita.

Before the Europeans showed up, a lot of people rode canoes between the nearer islands. These include Samoa and Tonga. Eight of the nine islands of Tuvalu had people on them. This explains the origin of the name Tuvalu, which means "eight standing together" in Tuvaluan. Possible evidence of man-made fires in the Caves of Nanumanga says that humans may have been there for thousands of years.

An important creation myth in Tuvalu is the story of "te Pusi mo te Ali" (the Eel and the Flounder), who are said to have created the islands of Tuvalu. "Te Ali" (the flounder) is believed to have made the flat atolls of Tuvalu and "te Pusi" (the eel) is the model for the coconut palms that are important to Tuvaluans. The stories of the ancestors of the Tuvaluans change from island to island. On Niutao, Funafuti and Vaitupu, the founding ancestor is said to be from Samoa. On Nanumea, the founding ancestor is said to be from Tonga.

Tuvalu was first seen by Europeans on 16 January 1568, during the voyage of Álvaro de Mendaña from Spain. He sailed past Nui and named it "Isla de Jesús" (Spanish for "Island of Jesus") because the day before was the feast of the Holy Name. Mendaña talked to the islanders but could not land. During Mendaña's second voyage across the Pacific, he passed Niulakita on 29 August 1595, which he named "La Solitaria".

The Ellice Islands were administered as a British protectorate from 1892 to 1916, as part of the British Western Pacific Territories (BWPT), by a Resident Commissioner based in the Gilbert Islands. The administration of the BWTP ended in 1916, and the Gilbert and Ellice Islands Colony was established, which existed until October 1975.

During World War II, the Ellice Islands were aligned with the Allies. The Japanese invaded and occupied Makin, Tarawa, and other islands in what is now Kiribati. The United States Marine Corps landed on Funafuti on 2 October 1942. Funafuti was later used as a base to prepare naval attacks on the Gilbert Islands that were occupied by Japanese forces.

In 1974, the Gilbert and Ellice Islands were given a ministerial government. In that year a general election was held, and a referendum was held to decide whether the Gilbert Islands and Ellice Islands should have separate governments. After the referendum, separation happened in two stages. The Tuvaluan Order 1975, which took effect on 1 October 1975, recognised Tuvalu as a separate British dependency with its own government. The second stage happened on 1 January 1976, when separate governments were created out of the civil service of the Gilbert and Ellice Islands Colony.

Toaripi Lauti became the first Prime Minister on 1 October 1978, when Tuvalu became independent. That date is also celebrated as the country's Independence Day and is a public holiday. On 5 September 2000, Tuvalu became the 189th member of the United Nations.

On 15 November 2022, Tuvalu announced that it will become the first country in the world to build a replica of itself in the metaverse. The country wants to preserve its cultural heritage by doing this.
Tuvalu has four reef islands and five true atolls. The atolls have only 26 km of land. Tuvalu is the fourth smallest country in the world. The land is very low lying and the coral atolls are narrow. Funafuti is the largest atoll of the islands and atolls. It has many islets around a central lagoon. This is about 25.1 kilometres (15.6 mi) (N–S) by 18.4 kilometres (11.4 mi) (W-E), centered on 179°7’E and 8°30’S.

The islands and atolls are: 

The highest height is above sea level, which gives Tuvalu the second-lowest highest elevation of any country (after the Maldives). Because of this, the islands that make up Tuvalu are threatened by any sea level rise. If this happens, the people will have to go to New Zealand, Niue or the Fijian island of Kioa. Tuvalu is also affected by what is known as a king tide, which can raise the sea level higher than a normal high tide.

Tuvalu is a Commonwealth realm, meaning that King Charles III of the United Kingdom is also the King of Tuvalu. The Governor-General of Tuvalu is the King's personal representative. 

The legislature of Tuvalu is the Parliament of Tuvalu. There are no political parties in Tuvalu. The Prime Minister of Tuvalu is the head of government and is a member of parliament who is elected to the position by the other members.

Java

Java () is one of the Sunda islands of Indonesia. 

The area is 132,000 square km. It is the world's 13th largest island. Around 140 million people live there, which is half the people in Indonesia and more than on any other island in the world. Most of them speak the Javanese language and many also speak other languages. 

The Java Sea is to the north, the Indian Ocean south. The capital city of Indonesia, Jakarta, is in Java.

Most of Java has a tropical monsoon climate (Am in the Koeppen climate classification). The northern coast of the island is low-lying. The soil is fertile, because the island was made by volcanoes. It is an important area for growing crops in Indonesia.

The majority religion in Java island is Islam. Majority of the Javanese are Muslim and they follow the branch of Sunni Islam.



