List of oil fields


This list of oil fields includes major fields of the past and present.


Anarchism

Anarchism is a radically revolutionary idea that says no one should be forced into any kind of hierarchy. For example, anarchism says that the government is harmful and not needed. However, that does not mean no form of order should not exist. Municipalities and autonomy are familiar terms in Anarchism It also says that people's actions should never be forced by other people. Anarchism is also a and is called a libertarian type of socialism. It is not a political stance.

The word "anarchism" is from the Greek word "αναρχία", which means "no rulers" or "no government". But that doesn't have to mean no rules at all. People often use the word "anarchy" to mean chaos and crime. But anarchists usually do not want this. They say anarchy is just a way of relations between people. They believe that, once put into place, these relations work on their own. Anarchists are usually opposed by the systems they wish to remove.

Individual freedom, voluntary association, and being against the state are important beliefs of anarchism. There are also big differences between anarchist philosophies on things like whether violence can be used to bring about anarchy; the best type of economy; the relationship between technology and hierarchy; the idea of equality; and the usefulness of some organization. The word "authority" is not clear, but anarchists are not against some types of authority (e.g. the authority of someone skilled in self-defence over someone that wants to learn self-defence), they are only against control by force.


List of countries by area

This is a list of countries by total area. The total area is the sum of all land and Inland water bodies (lakes, reservoirs, rivers). Data is taken from the United Nations Statistics Division.

List of countries by continents

Africa is the world's second-largest and second-most-populous continent. At about 30.3 million km2 (11.7 million square miles) including adjacent islands, it covers 6% of Earth's total surface area and 20% of its land area, accounting for about a fifth of the world's land. With 1.3 billion people as of 2018, it accounts for about 16% of the world's human population. It is surrounded by large areas of water. There are 54 fully recognized and independent countries in Africa, and 14.7% (1.216 billion) of the world's population lives there. It is thought to be the continent where the first humans evolved.
Asia is the largest and most populous continent and is a continent in the seven continent system. Asia consists of forty-eight countries as per the United Nations along with many other highly autonomous regions and disputed areas that are often generalised as countries of their own. The 49 countries are:

Europe is the second smallest continent, but the third most populous. It is a continent in the seven continent system. In other systems, it is part of Asia, Eurasia or Eurafrasia. Below is the list of fully sovereign or de facto countries that are indisputably either entirely or partially situated within Europe. The 45 countries are:
North America is the third largest continent and the fourth most populous. It is a continent in the 7 continents system, consisting of 22 countries are:

South America is the fourth largest continent and fifth most populous. It is a continent in the seven continent system. In other systems, it is part of The Americas. There are 13

The countries (16 total) are listed below according to their UN classification:


List of countries and dependencies by population

This is a list of countries and dependent territories by population. The number shows how many people live in each country. Countries with the most people are at the top of the list. Countries with the fewest people are at the bottom.

Also see: List of countries, List of countries by area, List of countries by population density.

Autonomous regions that form integral parts of countries are literally part of them. 

Not included in the list are organizations that are not sovereign states, such as the NATO or the BRICS.

Other territories that are rarely marked with an asterisk are territories that do not have permanent population, such as the British Indian Ocean Territory or United States Minor Outlying Islands.

Note: All dependent territories or constituent countries that are parts of sovereign states are not assigned a numbered rank.

e
Notes

List of oil-producing nations

This is a partial list of states that extract crude oil from oil wells.








