Craft


Craft or handicraft is about making things with one's own hands and skills. The different types of crafts can be put in groups according to the material being used. In the Middle Ages the most common materials were metal, wood or clay.

A craftsman is a person who has the knowledge and skills of a craft. When they have a lot of experience they may be called a "master craftsman". If they are young people learning a craft they are called an "apprentice".

Kim Jong-il

Kim Jong-il, birth name Yuri Irsenovich Kim (according to the Soviet Union's records) (, 16 February 1941 – 17 December 2011) was the Supreme Leader of Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North Korea) from the time of his father's death in 1994 until his own death in 2011. He was the son of Kim Il-Sŏng. Official North Korean propaganda said that Jong-il was born on Mount Paektu (a holy mountain in Korea); but most historians think that he was born near Chabarowsk in the Soviet Union. The North Korean laws made him permanent ruler of North Korea for life. He was sometimes referred to as the "Dear Leader", but this was not an official title. His official title was "Chairman of the National Defense Commission of North Korea", "Supreme Commander of the Korean People's Army" and "General Secretary of the Workers' Party of Korea". Many people in North Korea were imprisoned or killed for speaking out against the Kim regime. Almost everyone in North Korea wore a small pin with a picture of Kim Jŏng-Il or Kim Il-Sŏng on it.

The North Korean government told people of his death through the state media on 19 December 2011. It was said that he had died two days earlier of "physical and mental over-work".
Kim Jong-il was born as Yuri Irsenovich Kim on 16 February 1941 or 1942 in either Korea or the USSR . He was the son of Kim Il-Sung is was responsible for the Korean War in 1950-1953 .

In 1974 Kim Il-sung designated Kim Jong-il as his successor, solidifying the leadership transition within North Korea. Kim Jong-il's rise to power was marked by his gradual ascent within the North Korean political hierarchy. He began his official political career in the mid-1970s, holding various positions in the ruling Workers' Party of Korea. Over the years, he consolidated his influence and took on key roles in military and propaganda departments. By 1994, he succeeded his father, Kim Il-sung, as the Supreme Leader of North Korea.

Following Kim Il-Sung's death in 1994, Kim Jong-il became North Korea's 2nd Supreme Leader. During his rule, North Korea experienced a devastating famine which resulted in millions of deaths due to starvation. In the early 2000s, Kim oversaw the development of nuclear weapons with a series of missile tests by launching rockets of the coast of Japan and South Korea. His "Military-First" policy exacerbated economic challenges, leading to widespread hardship for the North Korean people and political repression.

Kim Jong-il was a Stalinist. He believed in the North Korean Communist philosophy of Juche (self-reliance). He was afraid to travel on aeroplanes and traveled only on trains. He was well known for his love of movies and luxury goods, especially caviar and Hennessey brand cognac, even though North Korea was one of the poorest countries in the world. Former United States Secretary of State Madeleine Albright once gave Jong-il a present of a basketball signed by Michael Jordan when he visited North Korea because Jong-il was a fan of the National Basketball Association and of Michael Jordan.

On the morning of 17 December 2011, at the age of 69 or 70, Jong-il died of a heart attack while traveling. His funeral was held on 28 December, and as a result, Kim Jong-un was then elected as the new leader of North Korea. On 13 April 2012, Kim Jong-il was made Eternal Chairman of the National Defence Commission and Eternal General Secretary of the Workers Party of Korea.


Silver

Silver (symbol Ag) is a chemical element. In chemistry, silver is element 47, a transition metal. It has an atomic weight of 107.86 a.m.u. Its symbol is Ag, from the Latin word for silver, "argentum".

Silver is a soft metal. It is also a precious metal. When it is used in money or in jewellery, it is often alloyed with gold or some other metal to make it harder. It is bluish-white. Among metals, it is the most reflective and the best conductor of electricity and heat. It is considered a precious metal. It is very malleable and ductile, which means it can be pulled into wire or hammered into thin sheets. Silver is one of the few words in the English language that does not rhyme with any other word. Silver coins and bars can be bought and sold at coin shops around the world.

Silver is less reactive than most other metals. It does not dissolve in most acids. Nitric acid dissolves it, though, to make silver nitrate. It does react with strong oxidizing agents like potassium dichromate or potassium permanganate. It does not corrode easily. It only corrodes when there is hydrogen sulfide in the air. Then, it forms a black coating known as tarnish. 

Silver exists in two main oxidation states: +1 and +2. The +1 is much more common. A few compounds exist in the +2 oxidation state, but they are very strong oxidizing agents. Silver compounds can be brown, black, yellow, gray, or colorless. Silver compounds are disinfectants.

Silver(I) compounds are oxidizing agents. They are more common. Most of them are very expensive.

Silver(II) compounds are powerful oxidizing agents and rare.

Silver can be found as a native metal. Silver can be found with copper, lead, or gold in rocks. The rocks are found mostly in Canada, Mexico, Peru, and the United States. Peru produces the most silver. Silver is also in chemical compounds. 

Acanthite is a silver ore that is a silver compound.
Silver is extracted from the earth in several ways. It is normally extracted using electrolysis.

Silver has been used for many thousands of years by people all over the world, for jewellery, as money, and many other things. It is called a white metal even though it looks grey. The word silver is also used to talk about this color or shade of grey. Silver is also used for utensils. It may be used to fill teeth in dentistry as an amalgam. Silver is used as a catalyst.

Silver compounds are disinfectants. It can kill bacteria and has other useful properties. It is used in the silver oxide battery. They are also used in photographic film. They can also be used to reduce odors in clothes. Some silver compounds are used in creams that help burns heal. 

Silver has used for thousands of years. It was normally considered second to gold in value. Many people including Romans and Chinese used silver as money. The symbol Ag is from the Latin name for silver, "argentum". Silver was also used to prevent infections and decay.

Silver is not a large danger to humans. Silver compounds are toxic. They make the skin turn blue. Some can be carcinogens. Colloidal silver, a common homeopathic remedy, is not toxic in normal amounts, but it does not do much.

More silver has been used each year than the amount mined in each year since 1990, when the amount mined each year stopped growing and its use increased. Companies that use silver have benefited from speculators who sell promises to deliver silver that does not exist, keeping prices artificially low. This is called naked short selling. The amount owed is more than all the silver in the world. The price of silver could go very high when the stored silver runs out and investors start asking for their metal back, instead of taking more I.O.U.'s.

The price of silver increased to 28 US dollars per troy ounce as of December 2010.


Pope

The Pope is the head of the Catholic Church. His official title is the Bishop of Rome. Politically, he is also the head of state of the Vatican City. The current Pope is Pope Francis.

Popes are elected by Cardinals of the Catholic Church. Once they are elected they hold the position until they die or resign. Usually they do not resign, though; Pope Benedict XVI is the only Pope to resign in the last 500 years. A newly elected Pope chooses a regnal name. Everyone is told this new name when the Habemus Papam is read out. The current pope (Francis) was called Jorge Bergoglio before he became a pope.

The name "Pope" comes from the Greek word "pappas", meaning "father". Catholics believe that when making statements "ex cathedra", that is official statements teaching about faith and morals, the Pope is "infallible" - which means God will not allow his followers to be misled by allowing their leader to make a wrong statement. Only two of any Pope's statements have been "ex cathedra". 

Popes today travel to many countries around the world preaching. The Pope is the only person in the world who both leads the church and government. Like other bishops he wears a big hat called a mitre and holds a staff called a crosier.

Some recent Popes, and the time they were Pope:

During parts of the Middle Ages, the French kings had a lot of influence in Europe. For this reason, seven popes (and two anti-popes) lived in Avignon, rather than Rome. The Avignon Papacy was from 1309 to 1377. During that time, the popes were known for their greed and corruption. These popes were allies of France; the enemies of France were also their enemies.

The Bishops of Rome who lived in Avignon were:

Two antipopes were based in Avignon as well:

Antipopes were people that were elected by small groups who did not like the official choice. 
Catherine of Siena convinced pope Gregory XI to move back to Rome. Unfortunately, he died shortly after moving. The cardinals then elected Urban VI to be the next pope. The French cardinals did not recognise this election as legitimate. They declared the papal see as vacant; which led to the Western Schism. The schism lasted until the Council of Constance in 1417. During this time, there was a pope in Rome, an Antipope in Avignon, and for some time, a second antipope. Each of the three was recognised as legitimate pope by different European powers. This led to a big split in the church as a whole. The council elected Pope Martin V as a new pope, recognised by all parties.


San Andreas Fault

The San Andreas Fault is a right-moving ('dextral') strike-slip fault. It marks the boundary between the North American Plate on the east and the Pacific Plate on the west. The fault was the cause of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. It first appeared about 20 million years ago. 

The San Andreas Fault is a zone several miles wide with multiple strands. The main active strand runs both on and off-shore between Cape Mendocino and the Sea of Cortez. From Cape Mendocino, it runs offshore to Tomales Bay. Then it goes southward through Bolinas Lagoon, just west of the San Francisco Peninsula, to come onshore again at Daly City, through the hills of the Peninsula. Crystal cum reservoir is formed by the fault itself. 

In the Santa Cruz mountains, it bends slightly eastward. This is the site of the 1989 Loma Prieta Earthquake. The fault continues south through the historic mission at San Juan Bautista and through the town of Hollister (where active creep can be seen to offset sidewalks and even houses). The Transverse Ranges north of Santa Barbara are formed by compression. Strands of the fault snake under the Los Angeles Basin. From there it connects into the active spreading under the Sea of Cortez.

The San Andreas fault was discovered by Furry in 1895, who climbed into the faulted serpentinite well where the south tower of the Golden Gate Bridge was being poured. In spite of the extreme deformation of the serpentinite, Lawson declared the bridge perfectly safe. The events of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake would seem to support his conclusion: the ruptured strand was not the one he observed in the footprint of the bridge.

Void (astronomy)

In astronomy, voids are the empty spaces between filaments. Filaments and voids are the largest-scale structures in the Universe. There are no or few galaxies in voids. Most voids have a diameter of 11 to 150 Mpc. 
Especially large voids are the empty spaces without many superclusters. 
These voids are sometimes called supervoids.

A 1994 official counting lists a total of 27 supervoids with a distance of up to 740 Mpc.

Computer mouse

A computer mouse is an input device which is used with a computer. Moving a mouse along a flat surface can move the cursor to different items on the screen.

Items can be moved or selected by pushing the mouse buttons (called clicking). 

Today's mouse has two buttons, the left button and right button, with a scroll wheel in between the two. Many computer mice use wireless technology and have no wire.

Today, this device is on almost every desktop computer. The main function is to move the mouse pointer on the screen. The mouse pointer can be used for many actions on the computer. Clicking or double clicking an icon, folder, or other object will open a document or start a program. Users can also move an icon, folder, or other object by clicking a mouse button and dragging the object with the mouse pointer. Pointing to an item on the screen means moving your mouse so the pointer appears to be touching the item. When you point to something, a small box often appears that describes the item.

There are many types of mouse: Optical mouse, wireless mouse, mechanical mouse, trackball mouse. A computer mouse is a handheld hardware input device that controls a cursor in a GUI and can move and select text, icons, files, and folders. For desktop computers, the mouse is placed on a flat surface such as a mouse pad or a desk and is placed in front of your computer. The picture to the right is an example of a desktop computer mouse with two buttons and a wheel. The mouse was originally known as the X-Y position Indicator for a display system and was invented by Douglas Engelbart in 1963 while working at Xerox PARC. However, due to Alto's lack of success, the first widely used application of the mouse was with the Apple Lisa computer.

In 1964 Douglas Engelbart (1925-2013), a researcher at Stanford Research Institute, wanted to find a way to make using computers easier. In those days, computers were large and expensive. Using them was very hard because everything had to be typed in on a keyboard. This command line interface is still used by some people, such as programmers, to get things done faster.

After studying and designing for a long time, Engelbart succeeded in inventing an input device which he named 'XY index'. At first, it needed two hands to use, but it was changed so that only one hand was needed to use it. This model was more like the mouse that we use today, but was made up of a big ball that the user had to roll in different directions to move the cursor.
The computer mouse began to be widely used when Xerox Palo Alto Research introduced a GUI in 1981, where the mouse was used to click things on the screen. This was also the case with the Macintosh operating system from Apple of Apple Inc when it came out in 1984, as well as Microsoft Windows. Windows became popular over the years, so over time computer mice became used with many computers.

In 1991, the company Logitech invented the wireless mouse. Unlike a normal mouse, wireless mice were connected by radio signals. Newer wireless mice use Bluetooth or WiFi to connect wireless mice to computers.

On most computers, the user can move the mouse to move the cursor in the same direction. To choose something that is on the screen, the user can move the cursor to it and "click" the left mouse button. The right button is used to open menus that are different depending on where the cursor is. The other mouse buttons can do different things, depending on the software. Most mice have two buttons to click.

Most mice also have the "scroll wheel"—a small wheel found between the two main mouse buttons. The user can move the wheel back and forth to "scroll" through things like a website or folder. "Scrolling" means moving the words or pictures up or down on the screen, so another part of the page comes into view. The wheel can also be pressed, to click it like another button.

A mouse can also be connected to and used the same way with a laptop computer, but unlike a desktop computer, one does not have to be connected to use the laptop. This is because along with the keyboard, laptops have a built-in input device called a trackpad which does the same thing as a mouse. Similarly, tablet computers have a touchscreen as an input device, but some, like the Microsoft Surface and those that use Android, also work with mice.



