Ton


Ton might refer to


Phoebe (moon)

Phoebe is a moon which goes around (orbits) the planet called Saturn. It takes eighteen months for Phoebe to go all the way around Saturn. It is half made out of rock, and half made out of ice. The ground on Phoebe is black, which means that it is very dark when seen from Earth. Phoebe does not have any air, and there is no water on its surface.

There are many craters on Phoebe. These are from asteroids and other things crashing into it, and leaving round marks on the surface.

Phoebe is slightly irregular, which means that it is not perfectly round like a ball. It has an average diameter of 213 km. This means that the Earth's moon is 15 times bigger than Phoebe. The duration between two sunrises (rotation period) is only 9 hours and 16.5 minutes long. 

Three Peaks Challenge

The Three Peaks Challenge is a challenge (a hard task or job) which involves climbing three British mountains (a peak is the top of a mountain) in less than 24 hours. The three mountains are the highest of each of the three countries in the island of Great Britain.


Each year many people attempt (try) to do the challenge to raise money for charity. They do this by getting their friends and family to sponsor them (give them money). Many people do not do the challenge for charity. They do it simply because they enjoy walking in the mountains and they want to try something hard. These people usually do it in small groups. Some of them will do the walking, and others will do the driving and the cooking for them. Some people have completed the challenge very quickly. The record is fifteen hours.

Recently, the challenge has become more popular. People who live near the mountains often do not like having cars around in the middle of the night. Conservation groups blame people doing the challenge for dropping litter and damaging the landscape. Some people park their cars in inconsiderate places. Thousands of people attempt the challenge each year. Supporters of the challenge say that only a few people cause these problems, and most behave well.

Most attempts are made in the summer, because the days are long and the weather is good. In the winter it is dark for most of the day and can be very cold. The weather up the mountains can change very quickly, and some people die in blizzards (storms of snow) in the winter. Most people who attempt the challenge use the same route, because it is the easiest way of doing the challenge in 24 hours.

They start with Ben Nevis at about five o'clock. It takes about three hours to climb this mountain, so they reach the summit (the top) at about eight o'clock, and return to the bottom at about ten o'clock. In the summer it is still light in Britain at this time. If people start climbing Ben Nevis too early they will arrive at Scafell Pike too early the next morning and it will still be dark. It is important to be quick at the bottom of the mountains. There is not much time so food is usually prepared by others waiting at the bottom. When the climbers arrive they usually leave immediately and eat while they are on the road.

The next mountain is Scafell Pike, in the Lake District of northern England. The journey between Ben Nevis and Scafell Pike is longer than the journey between Scafell Pike and Snowdon. This is why it is done at night, when it is too dark to climb. The journey takes six or seven hours, and the walkers usually go to sleep. The next morning they arrive at Scafell Pike at about half past four. In the summer it is light by this time. Scafell Pike is not as high as the other mountains, but is harder.

If it is climbed quickly enough and the walkers do not get lost they can return to the bottom by about nine o'clock. It takes several hours to get to Snowdon in Wales. The walkers are usually very tired and worried that there is not enough time. If they arrive at the bottom of Snowdon at half past one in the afternoon they can climb it in two hours. This leaves them an hour and a half to get back to the bottom. If they were too slow on the other mountains or the journeys in between they might have to run!

You need to be quite fit to do the challenge in 24 hours, but people who are young and active, and people who are used to hillwalking, can do it. Compared to some mountains in the world, all the mountains in Britain are small. If the weather is bad or the drivers are slow it is very hard.


Pennsylvania

Pennsylvania is one of the 50 states in the United States of America. It is in the northeastern part of the country. It has a border with Ohio on the west, West Virginia on the south and west, Maryland and Delaware on the south, New Jersey on the east, and New York and Lake Erie on the north.

The state capital of Pennsylvania is Harrisburg. The largest city in Pennsylvania is Philadelphia. The state nickname of Pennsylvania is "The Keystone State". The current governor of Pennsylvania is Josh Shapiro.

Pennsylvania is well known for its role in the American Revolution, its large communities of Amish, and its heavy industry.

Pennsylvania was home to many Native American groups before Europeans settled there. These include the Delaware, Susquehanna, and Iroquois.

The first European settlers in Pennsylvania were from Sweden. They arrived in 1643. The area was later ruled by the Netherlands and Great Britain. In 1681, Charles II of England, gave the land to William Penn. Penn used the land to create a home for Quakers. The land became known as "Penn's Woods", as Pennsylvania has many forests. In Latin this is "Pennsylvania". This became adopted as the name of the colony.

Meanwhile, in the western part of the state, armies from France and Great Britain fought for control of the source of the Ohio River. This conflict was part of the French and Indian War. Great Britain eventually won the conflict for this location and built a fort called Fort Pitt. The fort grew into a city which is now called Pittsburgh.

The state of Delaware was once part of Pennsylvania. In 1704, Delaware formed when three Pennsylvania counties left the colony and created their own government.

Pennsylvania was one of the 13 colonies that fought Great Britain in the American Revolution. The United States Declaration of Independence was signed in Philadelphia. Benjamin Franklin, an important figure in the Revolution, was also from Philadelphia. Pennsylvania was the second state to join the United States. Philadelphia was capital of the United States before Washington, D.C..

Later, Pennsylvania became an important center of industry. Kerosene was discovered in Titusville in the 19th century. This was the start of the oil industry in the United States. Large deposits of coal were found in and around Pittsburgh. This caused Pittsburgh to become a major industrial city.

Industry began leaving Pennsylvania in the late 20th century, because most heavy industry was being transferred to other nations. Many people left, too. It also caused many of its cities and towns to decay.

Most of Pennsylvania is part of the Appalachian Mountains, including the south central and northeastern areas of the state. Much of the rest of the state is very hilly, partly due to the closeness to mountains and partly due to the steep river valleys in the state. The Monongahela, Allegheny, and Ohio rivers are in the western part of the state, and the Susquehanna is in the central part of the state. The northwestern and southeastern parts of the state are mostly flat and low-lying.

Pennsylvania is the 33rd largest states in the United States, with a land area of 44,817 square miles. The highest point in the state is Mount Davis, at 3,213 feet above sea level. The lowest point is the Delaware River, which is at sea level.

Pennsylvania is the 5th most populated state. In 2020, there were 13,002,700 people.

More than half of the people live in the areas of Pittsburgh and Philadelphia. Few people live in the north central area of the state. Towns and cities tend to be small in size and densely populated, more so than in other states. This is because many of the towns and cities in Pennsylvania were built around a specific factory or factories.

Pennsylvania has many colleges and universities. Officially, the state's public university is Pennsylvania State University. Best known are a few private university systems which are partially (around 10%) funded by the state, like University of Pittsburgh. The state's most well-known private university is the University of Pennsylvania, an Ivy League institution. Pennsylvania also has a number of state run colleges in Bloomsburg, California, Cheyney, Clarion, East Stroudsburg, Edinboro, Indiana, Kutztown, Lock Haven, Mansfield, Millersville, Shippensburg, Slippery Rock, and West Chester. Those fourteen schools make up one of the largest state run higher education systems in the country. Other significant private universities are Carnegie-Mellon University, known for its computer science research, and Bucknell University.


Box

A box is a container used to put things in. It is mainly a cuboid (square) shape, but it can be other shapes too. Boxes are usually made out of cardboard, wood, plastic or metal.
Many boxes are made of cardboard, and a lot of them are made. They are primarily used for packaging, commercial goods or storing goods and materials. They can be made from bent or wrinkled cardboard. In their most obvious life stage, they are popularly used as a cheap material to hold a range of projects, among them being science experiments, children's toys, costumes and other things.

A box also means a rectangle, "e.g. userbox". But rectangles are mainly referred to as rectangles, the term box is the outline, or perimeter of the rectangle.

Philippines

The Philippines is an island country in Southeast Asia in the Pacific Ocean. It has 7,641 islands. The capital city of the Philippines is Manila.

Spain (15211898), and the United States (1898–1946), colonized (controlled) the country and Palau, which is on the eastern side of the Philippine Sea. The Philippines and East Timor are the only nations in East Asia where most people are Christians. The Philippines got independence when the United States left in 1946.

The Philippine Islands are surrounded on the east by the Philippine Sea, on the west by the South China Sea, and on the south by the Celebes Sea. Borneo island is a few hundred kilometers to the southwest, Vietnam is to the west, and Taiwan is directly north.

Local Government. The parts of Philippines are "local government units" (LGUs). The province is the top unit. There are 81 provinces in the country (2015). In the provinces there are cities and municipalities (towns). In these municipalities there are smaller "barangays" (villages). The "barangay" is the smallest local government unit.

All provinces are in 17 regions for administration (organisation). Most government offices have regional offices for the provinces. The regions do not have a separate local government, except for the Muslim Mindanao and Cordillera regions, which have their own power (autonomous government).

¹ Names are capitalized because they are acronyms, containing the names of the constituent provinces or cities.

The Philippines has 7,107 islands. Together there are about 300,000 square kilometers of land. The islands are in three groups: Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao. Luzon is the largest island and Mindanao is the second largest. The Visayas are the group of islands in the central part of the Philippines. The busy port of Manila, on Luzon, is the country's capital and it is the second-largest city after Quezon City. Cebu City and Davao City are the largest cities in Visayas and Mindanao, respectively.

The climate is hot, humid (there is a lot of water in the air), and tropical. The average temperature all year is around 26.5 °Celsius. Filipinos usually say there are three seasons: "Tag-init" or "Tag-araw" (the hot season or summer from March to May), "Tag-ulan" (the rainy season from June to November), and "Tag-lamig" (the cold season from December to February).

The Philippines is in the Pacific Ring of Fire (zone of frequent earthquakes and volcanic eruptions). Most of the mountainous islands had a lot of tropical rainforests a long time ago. They started as volcanoes. The highest place is Mount Apo on Mindanao at 2,954 m. Many volcanoes in the country, for example Mount Mayon, are active. The country also has about 19 typhoons per year.

Taal Volcano is an island in Taal Lake. It is in an ancient caldera in Batangas Province. It is about 2 hours by bus going south from Manila. The jump-off point in Talisay is suitable for day trips and overnighters.

Human beings came to the Philippines 30,000 years ago. They came from Asia. Scientists think they came on a land bridge during the ice age. The sea level was very low then. By the 900s c.e. there were villages in the Philippines. Chinese sailors from China and Muslim sailors from Borneo came to trade with the villagers.

In 1521, Ferdinand Magellan claimed the Philippines for Spain. That means he said they belonged to Spain, but the Filipinos did not agree or sign a treaty. Because the king of Spain at the time was King Philip II, the islands are called the Philippines. The Spanish built farms in the Philippines, but many Filipinos did not want Spain to rule them. For example, Jose Rizal wrote about why the Spanish rule was bad. The Spanish government killed him.

Rebels began to fight the Spanish government. They were still fighting when the Spanish-American War began in 1898. During the Spanish-American War, American Commodore George Dewey started to capture Manila on May 5. But he did not finish right away. Because messages were slow in 1898, Dewey captured Manila one day after the truce began. The United States paid Spain US $20 million and took the Philippines.

In 1899, the Filipinos began an insurgency against the Americans. The Filipinos did not want the United States to rule them. They wanted to rule themselves, so they fought the Americans. They started fighting on February 4, 1899, two days before the treaty between the United States and Spain. The Americans and Filipinos fought each other. Emilio Aguinaldo led the Filipinos. There were cruel acts. For example, American soldiers would kill Filipinos even if they were not fighters. About 20,000 Filipino fighters and about 200,000 Filipino non-fighters died. About 4200 Americans died. In 1902, the United States won. There was a little more fighting later.

The United States government decided that the Philippines should be an independent country but not right away. In 1907, the Philippines had elections for its first assembly. In 1916, the United States government promised to make the Philippines an independent country. In 1935, the Philippines became a United States commonwealth. This meant the Filipinos had more control over the Philippines than before but were not an independent country.

During World War II, the Japanese navy came to the Philippines. The American army was not ready to stop the Japanese. They left. The Japanese captured the country. The Japanese soldiers took away the Filipinos' food. The people starved. The Filipinos used guerrilla warfare to fight the Japanese. Later in the war, the Americans came back. The Americans and Filipinos fought the Japanese together. The American general Douglas MacArthur helped lead.

After World War II, the United States and the Philippines agreed that the Phillippines should be an independent country. The Phillippines became independent in 1946. It became the Republic of the Philippines.

The United States military did not leave all of the Philippines. The United States and Philippines signed a treaty in 1947. That treaty said the United States could build a military base in the Philippines. Subic Bay and Clark Air Force Base were the largest American military bases outside the United States. They were important during the Cold War. Many Filipinos did not like the bases.

During the Cold War the United States did not like Communism. It would support almost any government that was not Communist, even if it was very bad in other ways. The Marcos family became leaders of the Philippines for many years. The Filipinos elected Ferdinand Marcos in 1965. Later, he declared martial law and dismissed the assembly. That meant that the Filipinos had almost no freedom and could not vote for new leaders. Communist groups and Muslim groups tried to take control, but the United States helped Marcos stop them.

In 1987, the Filipinos stopped Marcos. They wrote a new constitution for the country. In the early 1990s, Subic Bay and Clark Air Force Bases were closed. There was still corruption but not as much as with Marcos.

There are many environmental problems in the Philippines. One of them is overfishing in many areas, which lead to pitiful catches. Another problem is that only ten percent of sewage is treated and cleaned, while the other 90% is dumped back to nature and the ocean, which leads to pollution. Deforestation is a serious problem, and after decades of cutting down forests, illegal logging and forest fires, there is only 3% left of original forest cover. Forest losses have also affected the Philippines with serious soil erosion, which is threatening the Philippines biodiversity.

The Philippines is a developing country. In 1998 the Philippine economy—a mixture of agriculture, light industry, and support services—deteriorated because of the effects of the Asian financial crisis and poor weather conditions. The economy's growth fell to 0.6% in 1998 from 5% in 1997, but recovered to about 3% in 1999 and 4% in 2000. As of 2012, it is estimated at 6.6%.

The Government has promised to continue its economic reforms to help the Philippines match the pace of development in the newly industrialized countries of Southeast Asia. The strategies are improving infrastructure, fixing the tax system to help the government income, supporting deregulation (to remove government control) and privatization of the economy, and increasing trade within the region. Future prospects depend heavily on the economic performance of the three major trading partners, China, the United States and Japan.

Around 109,6 million people live in the Philippines as of 2020. Most people in the Philippines are of Austronesian stock. The ethnic Chinese, who have helped run businesses since the 9th century, also live in the country. Its now 105 million people there. The Negritos live in the mountains of Luzon and Visayas. Luzon has a lot of mestizo people, a Spanish term for someone of mixed Hispanic and native blood.

The people of the Philippines are known as "Filipinos". Filipinos are divided into many groups, the three largest are the Tagalogs, Cebuanos, and the Ilocanos. When the Philippines was a colony, the term "Filipino" used to mean the Spanish and Spanish-mixed minority. But now everyone who is a citizen/national of the Philippines is called "Filipino". Even then, it is still has the most diverse ethnic groups in Asia, the other being Indonesia. People also call Filipinos "Pinoy" for short.

Filipino and English are the official languages. Filipino is based largely on Tagalog, a native language spoken in Metro Manila and neighboring provinces. The Filipino language, is a cousin of the Malay language. Other local languages and dialects are Cebuano and Ilocano and many others. English is used in government, schools and business. Other languages are Chinese which is spoken by the ethnic Chinese population and the ChineseFilipinos. Most of the Muslims live deep in southern Mindanao and the smaller islands off of the southern Philippine mainland near Malaysia's northeastern tip. They also speak Arabic as a second language but to a small extent. Spanish, once the official language of the Philippines in the 1970s is also spoken by a notable minority of Filipinos.

Before the Spanish arrived, the Filipinos did not think of themselves as one culture. Most of the Philippines were Buddhist, Muslim and Hindu. The Spaniards came in 1565, and brought with them Spanish culture. They soon spread to the islands making forts and schools, preaching Christianity, and converting most of the native people to the Catholic religion. When the United States colonized the islands in 1898, the Americans brought with them their own culture, which has the strongest influence up to now. This makes the Philippines the most Westernized country in eastern Asia. The Spanish culture in the Philippines is not directly from Spain but from Mexico, as the Philippines were ruled by Spain via Mexico. It was governed from Mexico City which explains much of the Spanish influence in the Philippines. Also, the Spanish that was spoken in the Philippines was Mexican Spanish, not European Spanish. A lot of the foods in the Philippines can also be found in Mexico. Filipinos, as a tradition, usually eat with their hands, like that of Malay tradition. And most of Filipino cuisine is also of Malay influence for the most part.

Each year major festivities called "barrio fiestas" are held. They commemorate the Patron saints of the towns, villages and regional districts. The festivities includes church services, street parades, fireworks displays, feasts, dance/music contests, and cockfights. Circumcision of males is a tradition and a big cultural event called "Tuli", nearly 91.7% are circumcised.

Most of the people in the Philippines are Christians. About 92% of the people are Christians. Most people in the Philippines belong to the Roman Catholic faith (70%). A sizable percentage of the people are Protestants (many diverse Christian denominations) (17%), Iglesia ni Cristo (2%), Muslims (5-10%), Buddhists (2%). There are also some Hindus and some other minor religions with fewer adherents (6.6%).




