Julia Roberts


Julia Fiona Roberts (born October 28, 1967) is an American actress and producer. She is best known for her roles in the movies "Steel Magnolias" (1989), "Pretty Woman" (1990), "Runaway Bride" (1998) and "Erin Brockovich" (2000). Roberts regularly plays characters of attractive powerful women. She has been among People Magazine's "50 Most Beautiful People in the world" eight times.

Roberts was born in Smyrna, Georgia, to Betty Lou (née Bredemus) and Walter Grady Roberts She is of English, Scottish, Irish, Welsh, German, and Swedish ancestry. Her father was a Baptist and her mother a Roman Catholic, and she was raised a Catholic. Her older brother, Eric Roberts, from whom she was estranged until 2004; sister Lisa Roberts Gillan; and niece Emma Roberts, are also actors.

Roberts' first marriage was to musician Lyle Lovett; they divorced. She and her husband Danny Moder have three children. She gave birth to twins, Hazel Patricia and Phinnaeus Walter, in 2004. In 2007, she gave birth to a son, Henry Daniel.

Roberts is a convert to Hinduism.


Angelina Jolie

Angelina Jolie (pronounced as Djole; née Voight, formerly Jolie Pitt, born June 4, 1975) is an American actress, movie producer, screenwriter, and author. She began acting at about 12 years old, and since then has starred in many movies.

She is the daughter of Jon Voight, who is also an actor and former actress/model Marcheline Bertrand. Her full name is Angelina Jolie Voight, but she decided to go by Angelina Jolie. She grew up in Los Angeles and attended the Lee Strasberg Theatre Institute.

She was born in Los Angeles, California. She is the daughter of actors Jon Voight and Marcheline Bertrand. She is the sister of actor James Haven, niece of singer-songwriter Chip Taylor, and goddaughter of actors Jacqueline Bisset and Maximilian Schell. On her father's side, Jolie is of German and Slovak descent, and on her mother's side, she is of primarily French Canadian, Dutch, and German ancestry. Like her mother, Jolie has stated that she is part Iroquois, although her only known Native American ancestor was a Huron woman born in 1649.

Jolie played her first leading role in the 1993 movie "Cyborg 2". In 1999 Jolie played Lisa Rowe in "Girl, Interrupted".

She was awarded an honorary damehood by the British government in 2014 in recognition of her work in preventing sexual violence. She was presented with the award by Queen Elizabeth II. As an American citizen, she cannot be called "Dame Angelina", but she can use the letters "DCMG" after her name.

She won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in "Girl, Interrupted".

Jolie self-identifies as bisexual. She has been married to Jonny Lee Miller and Billy Bob Thornton.

She has three adopted children. She lives with actor Brad Pitt. Pitt and Angelina are called 'Brangelina' by the media. They have three biological children. On May 27, 2006, Jolie gave birth to a girl, Shiloh. In 2008, she also gave birth to twins, Vivienne Marcheline and Knox Leon. On August 28, 2014, Jolie married Pitt in France. In September 2016, they separated and she filed for divorce. Jolie is currently battling for full custody of her six children.

She said in May 2013 that she had undergone a preventive double mastectomy after learning she had an 87% risk of getting breast cancer. Jolie has a defective BRCA1 gene resulting in a very high risk of breast cancer and ovarian cancer. Jolie said she might have her ovaries removed to prevent cancer.


Lisa Kudrow

Lisa Valerie Kudrow (born July 30, 1963 in Encino, California) is an American actress. She was best known for her roles as Ursula on "Mad About You" and Phoebe on "Friends". "Friends" has been very popular lately and is still selling many copies, beating many popular shows even though it finished a long time ago. She also starred in P.S. I Love You playing the role Denise Hennessey.

Grace Kelly

Grace Kelly (November 12, 1929 – September 14, 1982) was an American actress and royal. She later married Rainier III, Prince of Monaco, and became Her Serene Highness The Princess of Monaco. 

Grace Kelly was born at Hahnemann University Hospital, Philadelphia on November 12 1929. Her father was an Irish American and her mother was a German American.

Grace Kelly graduated from the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in 1949. She made her film debut in "Fourteen Hours" (1951) and gained stardom from her roles in Fred Zinnemann's western film "High Noon" (1952), and John Ford's adventure-romance "Mogambo" (1953). Other notable works include "Dial M for Murder", "Rear Window", and "To Catch a Thief". In 1955 she won an Academy Award for "The Country Girl". She was the first actress to appear on a postage stamp. She was also mentioned in Billy Joel's song "We Didn't Start the Fire" and in Mika's song "Grace Kelly" (2007). 

The classic head-cover of a silk scarf crossed under the chin and knotted at the side or nape of the neck is universally known as the "Grace Kelly". This chic look is still copied by many female Hollywood stars when they wish to retain a degree of anonymity in the public eye.

Grace Kelly retired from acting at age 26 to marry Rainier III of Monaco. 

With Prince Rainier, she had three children:
As Princess of Monaco, Grace Kelly was known for her charity work. In 1982, Kelly suffered a stroke which caused her to crash her car. She died in hospital the next day. Her son, Prince Albert, helped establish the Princess Grace Awards in 1984.

Elizabeth Taylor

Dame Elizabeth "Liz" Rosemond Taylor (February 27, 1932 – March 23, 2011) was a British-American actress. 

The movies she starred in were, "National Velvet", "Father of the Bride", "A Place in the Sun", "Giant", "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof", and "Suddenly, Last Summer". She won the Academy Award for Best Actress for "BUtterfield 8". She played the title role in "Cleopatra", and married her costar Richard Burton. They appeared together in 11 films, including "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?". Taylor won a second Academy Award in "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?". From the mid-1970s, she appeared less frequently in film, and made occasional appearances in television and theatre.

Her personal life included eight marriages and several life-threatening illnesses. From the mid-1980s, Taylor supported HIV and AIDS programs; she co-founded the American Foundation for AIDS Research in 1985, and the Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation in 1993. She received the Presidential Citizens Medal, the Legion of Honour, the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award and a Life Achievement Award from the American Film Institute. The American Film Institute named her seventh on their list of the "Greatest American Screen Legends". Taylor died of congestive heart failure in March 2011 at the age of 79 after suffering many years of ill health.

Taylor was born in London to American parents, Francis Lenn Taylor and Sara Sothern, who were Americans living in England. Her parents were originally from Arkansas City, Kansas. They returned to the United States on the onset of World War II. 

Her first act was in "Lassie Come Home" (1942). The next one was "National Velvet" (1944). Throughout her teens, she appeared in various supporting roles and easily made the transition to young adult parts. 

Her first major role was in "A Place in the Sun" in 1950, with Montgomery Clift. Working steadily during the 1950s, notable movies have included; "The Father of the Bride" (1951), "Ivanhoe" (1952), "Elephant Walk" (1954), "Rhapsody" (1954), "Giant" (1956), "Raintree County" (1957), "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof" (1958), "Suddenly, Last Summer" (1959), "BUtterfield 8" (1960), etc. 
In 1963, she played the lead role in "Cleopatra" and met actor Richard Burton, who became her fifth husband in 1964. They appeared in several movies together; "The V.I.P's" (1963), "The Sandpiper" (1965), "Who's afraid of Virginia Woolf ?" (1966), "The Taming of the Shrew" (1967), "Boom" (1968). She also starred in "Secret Ceremony" (1969), "X, Y and Zee" (1972) and "Ash Wednesday" (1973).

She has won two Academy Awards for best actress, the first for her performance in "Butterfield 8", the second for her performance in "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?". In 1999 she won the BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award, a lifetime achievement award.

Taylor often received media attention because of her many illnesses and controversial marriages to well known figures such as Conrad Hilton Jr., Michael Wilding, Mike Todd, Eddie Fisher, Richard Burton (twice), John Warner. She has two sons with Michael Wilding and a daughter with Mike Todd. She also adopted a daughter while married to Richard Burton. She was the godmother of two of Michael Jackson's children.

Taylor devoted consistent and generous humanitarian time, advocacy efforts, and funding to HIV and AIDS-related projects and charities. She helped to raise more than $270 million for the cause. She was one of the first celebrities and public personalities to do so at a time when few people knew about the disease and organized and hosted the first AIDS fundraiser in 1984 to benefit AIDS Project Los Angeles.

Taylor was cofounder of the American Foundation for AIDS Research (amfAR) with Dr. Michael Gottlieb and Dr. Mathilde Krim in 1985. Her longtime friend and former co-star Rock Hudson had disclosed having AIDS and died of it that year. She also founded the Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation (ETAF) in 1993, created to provide critically needed support services for people with HIV/AIDS. For example, in 2006 Taylor commissioned a "Care Van" with examination tables and xray equipment, the New Orleans donation made by her Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation and Macy's. That year, after Hurricane Katrina, Taylor donated $500,000 to the NO/AIDS Task Force, a non-profit organization serving the community of those affected by HIV/AIDS in and around New Orleans.The donation was shared by Taylor for her celebration of her 74th birthday and to help NO/AIDS Task Force continue their work on fighting AIDS.

Taylor was honored with a special Academy Award, the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award, in 1992 for her HIV/AIDS humanitarian work. Speaking of that work, former President Bill Clinton said at her death, "Elizabeth's legacy will live on in many people around the world whose lives will be longer and better because of her work and the ongoing efforts of those she inspired."

After she converted to the Jewish religion, Taylor worked for Jewish causes throughout her life.
In 1959, her purchase of Israeli Bonds caused Arab boycotts of her films. In 1962, she was prevented from entering Egypt to complete "Cleopatra"; its government announced that she would not be allowed to come to Egypt because she had adopted the Jewish faith and "supports Israeli causes". However the ban was lifted in 1964 after it was considered that the film had brought good publicity to Egypt.

In 1974, Taylor and Richard Burton considered marrying in Israel, but they were unable to do so because Burton was not Jewish. Taylor helped to raise money for organizations such as the Jewish National Fund; advocated for the right of Soviet Jews to emigrate to Israel and canceled a visit to the USSR because of its disapproval of Israel due to the Six-Day War, along with signing a letter protesting the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 3379 of 1975.

She offered herself as a replacement hostage after more than 100 Israeli civilians were taken hostage in the Entebbe skyjacking in 1976. After the success of the operation, which freed the hostages, she acted with Kirk Douglas in a TV special, "Victory at Entebbe", broadcast in January, 1977. When she experienced the role, she stated, "I couldn't pass up this opportunity. I have strong ties to Israel and I firmly believe in the courage and dedication of the Entebbe mission."

Taylor had a lot of health problems. In 2004, she was diagnosed with congestive heart failure. In 2009, she underwent cardiac surgery for it. In early 2011, new symptoms related to congestive heart failure caused her to be admitted into Cedars-Sinai Medical Center for treatment. Taylor died on March 23, 2011, surrounded by her four children at the same medical center in Los Angeles, California, at the age of 79.


Hilary Swank

Hilary Swank (born July 30, 1974) is an Academy and Golden Globe Award-winning American actress. The is the second woman in the world to win two Oscars before thirty (the first one was Jodie Foster). Swank's movies include "Million Dollar Baby" and "Freedom Writers". She played Gail Getty in the 2018 television series "Trust".

Swank was born in Lincoln, Nebraska. When she was nine she played her first role as Mowgli in her school's version of "The Jungle Book" by Rudyard Kipling. Afterward she often was in school and university performances.

Nana Visitor

Nana Visitor (born July 26, 1957) is an American actress. Visitor was born in New York City. She is most famous for playing Kira Nerys in the television series "".

Visitor married fellow "Star Trek" actor Alexander Siddig in 1997. They had a son in 1996. Visitor and Siddig divorced in 2001.

Visitor is the niece of American actress Cyd Charisse.

Alexander Siddig

Alexander Siddig (November 21, 1965) is a Sudanese actor. Siddig is most famous for playing Dr Julian Bashir in the "Star Trek" television series "".

Siddig married fellow "Star Trek" actor Nana Visitor in 1997. They had a son in 1996. Siddig and Visitor divorced in 2001.

Siddig is the nephew of English actor Malcolm McDowell and of former Sudanese Prime Minister Sadiq al-Mahdi.

Eiffel Tower

The Eiffel Tower (French: La Tour Eiffel, ], IPA pronunciation: "EYE-full" English; "eh-FEHL" French) is a landmark in Paris. It was built between 1887 and 1889 for the Exposition Universelle (World Fair). It was supposed to be a temporary installation for the 1889 World Fair, held at Paris to show respect to 100 years of the French Revolution. In 1909, there were discussions regarding the potential dismantling of the Eiffel Tower. However, the decision to save this iconic structure was ultimately reached by city officials, who acknowledged its importance as a radiotelegraphy station.

The Eiffel Tower cost 7,799,401.31 French gold francs to build in 1889, an amount equal to $1,495,139.89 at that time. Today, its cost would equal to $36,784,020.11. It took 2 years, 2 months and 5 days to build it. The tower is tall, but this height does not include the aerial (antenna) on the top; the total height of the structure is . It has a square base that is long on each side. The second story platform is off , and the surface to be painted is . Since it has been built it has been repainted 18 times, each of these 18 paint jobs there were only 25 painters hired to do the job. Three separate colors of paint are used on the structure in order to enhance the impression of height, with the lightest at the top.

There are 20,000 sparkling lights and of cables covering the structure. The paper used to print the visitors' tickets in one year weighs . The top of the tower leans away from the sun as the metal facing the sun heats up and expands; it can move as much as and grow taller. The tower was also built to sway slightly in the wind.

The Eiffel Tower was built by Alexandre Gustave Eiffel for the 100th anniversary of the French Revolution. Even though Gustave Eiffel is credited for the Eiffel Tower it was actually two lesser known people who came up with the original drawing of it. These people were Maurice Koechlin and Emile Nouguier. These two men were the chief engineers of Eiffel’s engineering firm. The main architect was Stephen Sauvestre.

Koechlin, Nouguier, Sauvestre, and Eiffel submitted the plans to compete for the spot on the champ de mars plot of land, to serve as the expositions entrance. It would also determine the 1889 world's fair centerpiece in Paris. There were 107 bids submitted to construct the Eiffel Tower. Fifty people worked on the design, and more than 100 built the parts. One hundred and thirty two workers assembled the parts on site.

The first digging for the foundations began on January 28, 1887, and all construction was concluded on March 31, 1889. When the tower was built, it was only meant to be kept for 20 years. People did not like the Eiffel Tower and wanted it taken down because they thought is was an ugly structure polluting the scenery of the Paris sky. After the 20 years, the tower became the property of Paris again.

By this time, the city had learned that the tower could be used to help with communications. There was also a metrology lab that had been installed for studies on everything from gravity to electricity. The military used the tower as a wireless telegraph transmitter for communication during battle. The tower was used in the capture of the spy "Mata Hari" during World War I after a message was intercepted. Today, it is used to send radio and television signals to the capital city of Paris and beyond. After people learned about the many benefits the tower provided, no one wanted it to be taken apart.

The Eiffel Tower joined the green energy movement by building two wind turbines on the second level. These wind turbines produce of electricity.

There were 50 architects, engineers, and draftsmen that created 5,300 drawings of the Eiffel Tower before the construction started. Once they had a plan, there were 18,000 pieces built and prepared in Eiffel's factory outside of town. These pieces were created to the accuracy of 1/10 of a millimeter. These pieces were put together to form new pieces that were 5 meters long to be transported to the building site.

There were 132 workers there to assemble the pieces on site. All the pieces were put into place and hooked together by thermally assembled rivets. There were 4 men needed to assemble a single rivet: one person to heat the rivet up, another to hold it in place, a third to shape the head, and a fourth person to beat the rivet with a sledge hammer.

Only of the 2.5 million rivets were assembled on site. The work on the foundations took 5 months. The workers only used spades, and the rubble was taken away by horses and steam locomotives.

There was no problem in building the pillars on the Champ de Mars side of the tower. But on the Seine River side of the tower, foundations used compressed air and corrugated steel caissons five meters under water. The deepest foundations are 15 meters under ground. The feet of the tower are set in each of these foundation ditches. These foundations support the four pillars or truss frames.

The difficulty building the first floor was in bringing building materials and people up to it with a point of departure as in the elevators. The elevators had to be positioned at a slanting angle to meet the horizontal beams on the first floor. The elevator had to use hydraulic jacks to move and erect the elevator up the slanted legs. Currently the hydraulic jacks are not in use due to more advanced technology. The second floor was assembled with cranes that took the same route as the elevators. There was no troubles from this point onward in the construction.


Louvre

The Louvre is a museum in Paris. It has millions of visitors every year because of its art collection. It is the most visited art museum in the world.

The most famous piece of art in the Louvre is the "Mona Lisa" by Leonardo da Vinci. Other paintings include works of Rembrandt, Giambattista Pittoni, Caravaggio, Rubens, Titian and Eugène Delacroix.

There are also many statues inside the Louvre. The most famous statues are the Venus de Milo and the Winged Victory of Samothrace.

Philip II of France built a castle called the "Castle of the Louvre". It used to be where the museum is. They used the castle as a fortress to defend Paris against the Vikings.
Charles V, King of France turned the castle into a palace. However, Francis I, King of France, knocked it down and built a new palace.

Henry IV, King of France added the Grande Galerie to the Louvre. The Grande Galerie is more than a quarter of a mile long and one hundred feet wide. The Grande Galerie was built along the River Seine. It was the longest building in the world.

The building was renovated during François Mitterand's time as French President. The glass pyramid and the inverted pyramid (made famous by "The Da Vinci Code", a novel and later a movie) were the work of architect I.M. Pei.


Venus de Milo

The Venus de Milo is an ancient Greek statue. It is in the Louvre, a museum in Paris, France. The "Venus de Milo" represents Aphrodite, the goddess of love in Greek mythology. The statue is made of marble and is 203cm high. It is believed to be the work of Alexandros of Antioch. The "Venus de Milo" was found on 8 April 1820 on the Aegean island of Melos. King Louis XVIII of France presented the "Venus de Milo" to the Louvre in 1821. 


Aphrodite

Aphrodite (Ancient Greek: Ἀφροδίτη, "Aphrodítē") is the Ancient Greek goddess of love, beauty. She was also the goddess of procreation. Aphrodite is one of the Twelve Olympians. The most beautiful and refined of the goddesses, Aphrodite was married to Hephaestus, god of fire and metalworking. Aphrodite had numerous affairs with other beings, the most notable of these being Ares, the god of war.

In Homer's "Iliad", one of the Oceanids.
In Hesiod's "Theogony", however, Aphrodite is stated to have risen from sea foam, formed at the spot where Uranos' genitals landed, after Kronos castrated him and tossed them into the sea. Aphrodite's cult was centered on the islands of Cythera and Cyprus, both of which were claimed to be her birthplace. Her main festival was the Aphrodisia, which was celebrated annually every midsummer. The Charites (minor goddesses of grace and splendor) attended to Aphrodite and served as her handmaidens. Aphrodite's symbols include the dolphin, myrtle, rose, dove, sparrow, swan and pearl, and the dove, sparrow and swan were her sacred animals. The goddess Venus is her Roman equivalent. Aphrodite was quite often described as very beautiful, and was used as a point of comparison for female beauty - but just as she was beautiful, she was just as smart and wise.

Eros, Phobos, Deimos, Harmonia, Pothos, Anteros, Himeros, Hermaphroditos, Rhode, Eryx, Peitho, Tyche, Eunomia, The Graces, Priapus, and Aeneas. She has 16 children in total.

Aphrodite was very beautiful, which made Zeus afraid that she would be the cause of fights between the other gods. He therefore gave Aphrodite to Hephaestus. Hephaestus was happy to be married to Aphrodite and gave her many pieces of jewelry which were gifts of love, like a belt that when ever she wore it, it would make men be attracted to her. Aphrodite, however, was not attracted to him. So she spent most of her time with Ares, but she also spent time with Adonis and Anchises. She had many children.



