Big Bang


The Big Bang is a physical theory about how the universe started expanding, and then made the stars and galaxies we see today. The Big Bang is the name that scientists use for the most common theory of the universe, from the very early stages to the present day.
The most commonly considered alternatives are called the Steady State theory and , according to both of which the universe has no beginning or end.

According to the theory the Big Bang began as a very hot, small, and dense superforce (the mix of the four fundamental forces), with no stars, atoms, form, or structure (called a "singularity"). Then about 13.8 billion years ago, space expanded very quickly (thus the name "Big Bang"). This started the formation of atoms, which eventually led to the formation of stars and galaxies. It was Georges who first noted (in 1927) that the universe is expanding. The universe is still expanding today, and getting colder as well.

As a whole, the universe is growing and the temperature is falling as time passes. Cosmology is the study of how the universe began and its development. Some scientists who study cosmology have agreed that the Big Bang theory matches what they have observed so far.

Astronomer Fred Hoyle mockingly called the theory the "Big Bang" on his radio show. Scientists who did not agree with him decided to use it.

Scientists base the Big Bang theory on many different observations. The most important is the redshift of very far away galaxies. Cosmological redshift is the Doppler effect occurring in light. When an object moves away from Earth, its color rays look more similar to the color red than they actually are, because the movement stretches the wavelength of light given off by the object. Scientists use the word "red hot" to describe this stretched light wave because red is the longest wavelength on the visible spectrum. The more redshift there is, the faster the object is moving away. By measuring the redshift, scientists proved that the universe is expanding, and they can work out how fast the object is moving away from the Earth. With very exact observation and measurements, scientists believe that the universe was a singularity approximately 13.8 billion years ago. Because most things become colder as they expand, scientists assume that the universe was very small and very hot when it started. This does not take into account other possible (non-cosmological) causes of redshift.

Other observations that support the Big Bang theory are the amounts of chemical elements in the universe. Amounts of very light elements, such as hydrogen, helium, and lithium seem to agree with the theory of the Big Bang. The same is true, however, for Static State theory and plasma cosmology. Scientists also detected what they call the cosmic microwave background radiation. These electromagnetic waves are everywhere in the universe. This radiation is now very weak and cold, but is thought to have been very strong and very hot a long time ago.

It can be said that time had no meaning before the Big Bang. If the Big Bang was the beginning of time, then there was no universe before the Big Bang, since there could not be any "before" if there was no time. Other ideas state that the Big Bang was not the beginning of time 13.8 billion years ago. Instead, some believe that there was a completely different universe before the Big Bang, and it may have been very different from the one we know today.

Nonetheless, in November 2019, Jim Peebles, awarded the 2019 Nobel Prize in Physics for his theoretical discoveries in physical cosmology, noted in his award presentation that he does not support the Big Bang Theory due to the lack of concrete supporting evidence, and stated, "It's very unfortunate that one thinks of the beginning whereas in fact, we have no good theory of such a thing as the beginning."

Many things happened in the first picosecond of the universe's time:

Gmail

Gmail is a free e-mail service that is run by Google. It can be accessed on the web, by POP3, or by IMAP. Some of the competitors to Gmail are Yahoo! Mail, Hotmail/Windows Live Mail, and Inbox.Com. The space given to any Gmail member is increased a small amount every second, and as of July 26, 2012, Google provides each account with about 10272 MB of space.

Google Apps is a service from Google that was created in February 2006 as Gmail for your domain. It is to allow system administrators of a company or organisation to create email accounts for their own domain.

In the United Kingdom (UK), the trademark "Gmail" was owned by another company before Gmail by Google was started. Thus, the United Kingdom uses a domain of "googlemail.com" for their users, and the logo has the words of "Google Mail" instead of the normal "Gmail".

In September 2009 Google began to change the branding of UK accounts back to Gmail following the resolution of the trademark dispute.


Astronomer

An astronomer is a scientist who studies astronomy. Observational astronomers work in observatories with telescopes to collect information from things in outer space such as planets, stars, or galaxies. Theoretical astronomers study the collected information, and use it to help us understand how the universe behaves.


Analysis

Analysis is the process of breaking a complex topic or substance into smaller parts to gain a better understanding of it. The technique has been applied in the study of mathematics and logic since before Aristotle (384–322 B.C.), though "analysis" as a formal concept is a relatively recent development.

The word comes from the Ancient Greek ἀνάλυσις ("analusis", "a breaking up", from "ana-" "up, throughout" and "lysis" "a loosening").

In this context, Analysis is the opposite of synthesis, which is to bring ideas together.

The following concepts are closely related to this basic idea:


Foolishness

Foolishness is when someone acts without wisdom or sense. A foolish decision is one made without careful reasoning or judgement. An act of foolishness is called folly. A person who shows foolishness may be called a fool. It is different to stupidity, which is the lack of intelligence.

A "fool's errand" is a useless piece of work.

A "fool's paradise" a happy state for which there is no good reason.

The "wise fool" is a common literary character, a person who appears at first to be unintelligent but then reveals him or herself to possess a grest deal of wisdom. An example of this is Sancho Panza in Cervantes' "Don Quixote". Sancho is an uneducated peasant who at first seems to have little sense or experience. However, as the tale unfolds, he reveals himself to possess a wealth of common sense, first expressed through endless proverbs, but then through his own skill. In this sense he provides a comic juxtaposition to Quixote himself, who is highly educated but insane; both of them supply what the other lacks.


Aristotle

Aristotle (Stagira, Macedonia, 384 – Chalicis, Euboea, Greece, 7 March 322 ) was a Greek philosopher. He was one of the most important philosophers in the history of Western civilization. Aristotle wrote many books, and some of those books survive. Aristotle tutored Alexander the Great when Alexander was a child.

Aristotle's father was named Nicomachus. He was a soldier for King Amyntas of Macedonia.

At about the age of eighteen, Aristotle went to Athens to become a student of Plato at Plato's Academy. Aristotle stayed at the academy until he was 27. He left after Plato died in 347 BC. 

He then traveled with Xenocrates to Asia Minor. While in Asia, Aristotle traveled with Theophrastus to the island of Lesbos. They looked at the botany and zoology of the island. 

In 343 B.C. Philip II of Macedon invited Aristotle to tutor his son Alexander the Great. Aristotle was put in charge of the royal academy of Macedon. During that time, he not only taught Alexander; he also taught two other future kings: Ptolemy and Cassander.

Aristotle believed Greek culture was better than all of the other cultures. He encouraged Alexander to conquer Persia, which was an empire to the east. One time, he advised Alexander to be 'a leader to the Greeks and a despot to the barbarians, to look after the former as after friends and relatives, and to deal with the latter as with beasts or plants'.

By 335 Aristotle returned to Athens. He started his own school there. It was called the Lyceum. Aristotle taught courses at the school for twelve years. 

It was probably then (335 to 323 B.C.) that Aristotle wrote most of his works. Aristotle wrote many dialogues. Only parts of his dialogues survive. The works that have survived are probably lecture notes for his students. All of Aristotle's works are like an encyclopedia of everything the Greeks knew. Some people think Aristotle was probably the last person to know everything there was to know about in his own time.

Near the end of Alexander's life, he began to think people might be trying to kill him. He threatened Aristotle in letters he wrote to him. Aristotle often said that he disliked Alexander calling himself a god. The king executed Aristotle's grandnephew Callisthenes as a traitor. Alexander died in Babylon in 323 B.C. without ever going back to Greece. When Alexander died, Athenians started to dislike Macedonians again and Aristotle left the city. He died in Euboea of natural causes that same year, 322.

The three greatest ancient Greek philosophers were Aristotle, Plato, and Socrates. Socrates taught Plato, then Plato taught Aristotle. These three thinkers turned early Greek philosophy into the beginnings of Western philosophy as it is today.

Plato's main ideas were that knowledge from the senses was always confused and not pure. True knowledge can be got from the thinking soul that turns away from the world. Only the soul can have knowledge of "Forms", the real way things are. The world is only a copy of these "Forms" and is not perfect.

Aristotle thought differently. He thought that knowledge from the senses was more important. These thoughts became roots of the scientific method after hundreds of years. Most of the things Aristotle wrote that we still have today are notes from his speaking and teaching. Some of his important writings are "Physics", "Metaphysics", "(Nicomachean) Ethics", "Politics", "De Anima (On the Soul)", and "Poetics".

He also had problems with the atomic theory. He did not believe in Democritus' theories about the atomic theory. He believed that all matter was continuous whereas Democritus stated that all matter was made up of tiny indivisible things called "atoms".

Aristotle created a form of logic. His logic is called "sentential logic" because it uses sentences for the syllogism.

Aristotle's logic influenced the history of Western thought. It was his logic which was copied and used in the Arabic and Latin mediaeval traditions. It was dominant for two and a half thousand years, until the late 19th century. Then modern logic was started by Gottlob Frege, Charles Sanders Peirce and others.

Aristotle is the earliest natural historian whose work has survived in some detail. He certainly did research on the natural history of Lesbos, and the surrounding seas and neighbouring areas. The works "History of Animals", "Generation of Animals" and "Parts of Animals" have observations and interpretations, along with some myths and mistakes.

The most striking passages are about the sea-life round Lesbos. As well as live observation, he got specimens from the catches of fishermen. His observations on catfish, electric fish ("Torpedo") and angler-fish are detailed. His writing on cephalopods such as "Octopus", "Sepia" (cuttlefish) and the paper nautilus ("Argonauta argo") are accurate. His description of the hectocotyl arm, used in sexual reproduction, was widely disbelieved until its rediscovery in the 19th century. He separated the aquatic mammals from fish, and knew that sharks and rays were part of the group he called Selachē (Selachimorpha).

Another good example of his methods comes from the "Generation of Animals" in which Aristotle describes breaking open fertilized chicken eggs at intervals to observe when visible organs were generated.

He gave accurate descriptions of ruminants' four-chambered fore-stomachs, and of the ovoviviparous egg development of the houndshark "Mustelus mustelus".

The works are traditionally listed in this sequence:

Aristotle is still one of the most influential people who ever lived. He contributed to almost every kind of knowledge in his day, and he started many new fields. 

Aristotle was the founder of formal logic, pioneered the study of zoology, and helped to develop scientific method.

Despite these achievements, Aristotle's errors are thought by some, such as Peter Medawar, to have held back science considerably. Bertrand Russell notes that "almost every serious intellectual advance has had to begin with an attack on some Aristotelian doctrine". Russell also refers to Aristotle's "Ethics" as "repulsive", and calls his logic "as definitely antiquated as Ptolemaic astronomy". Russell says these errors make it difficult to do historical justice to Aristotle, until one remembers what an advance he made on his predecessors.

The immediate influence of Aristotle's work was felt as the Lyceum grew into the Peripatetic school of philosophers. Aristotle's influence over Alexander the Great is seen in the latter's bringing with him, on his expedition, biologists and researchers.



