Emily Brontë


Emily Jane Brontë (30 July 1818 – 19 December 1848) was a British writer and poet. She is most famous for her only novel "Wuthering Heights" (published in 1847). She wrote under the pen name Ellis Bell. Brontë had two sisters, Charlotte and Anne, who were also writers. Her brother, Branwell, was a painter. She co-wrote the poetry collection "Poems by Currer, Ellis and Acton Bell" (1846), with her sisters. She was born in Thornton, West Riding of Yorkshire, England. She attended Cowan School with her sister Charlotte.

Brontë died of tuberculosis on 19 December 1848 in Haworth, West Riding of Yorkshire. She was 30.


Anne Brontë

Anne Brontë (17 January 1820 – 28 May 1849) was an English writer and poet. She is best known for writing "Agnes Grey" (1847) and "The Tenant of Wildfell Hall" (1848).

Anne was born on 17 January 1820 in Thornton, Yorkshire, England. She was the daughter of Patrick and Marie Brontë and the youngest of their six children. She was taught at her family's home in Haworth by her aunt Elizabeth Branwell. She worked as a governess in 1839 and then again between 1841 and 1845.

In 1846 Anne contributed 21 poems to "Poems by Currer, Ellis and Acton Bell". This was a joint work with her sisters, Charlotte and Emily. "Agnes Grey" was published in 1847 in three volumes with "Wuthering Heights", a book written by her sister Emily. "The Tenant of Wildfell Hall" was published in 1848 and sold well.

Anne Brontë died on 28 May 1849 in Scarborough, Yorkshire, England of tuberculosis.

The sisters of Anne Brontë:

The books of Anne Brontë:

Charles Dickens

Charles Dickens (7 February 1812 – 9 June 1870) was an English writer and a social critic who is regarded as one of the great English writers of the 19th century.

Charles Dickens was born in Portsmouth, England. His parents were John Dickens (1785-1851), a naval pay clerk, and Elizabeth Barrow (1789–1863).

When Dickens was born, he had dyslexia and so he could not read or write properly, unlike other kids. When Charles was 12 years old, his family moved to Camden, London. He worked in a blacking factory there while his father was in prison for debt. Dickens's hard times in the factory served as a foundation of ideas for many of his novels. Many of them, like "Oliver Twist", later became famous. When his great-grandmother died and transmitted money, Charles' father paid off his debts and was released from prison. Charles did not like working and wished to stop after his father had been released. However, his mother said that the family needed the money and so Charles was forced to continue working. Charles then finished his schooling and got a job as an office boy for an attorney. After finding that job dull, he taught himself shorthand and became a journalist that reports on the government. Dickens was a Unitarian.

His first book was "Sketches by Boz" in 1836, a collection of the short pieces that he had been writing for the "Monthly Magazine" and the "Evening Chronicle". This was followed by "The Posthumous Papers of the Pickwick Club" in 1837. Both books became popular as soon as they were printed.

Charles Dickens died of a stroke on June 9, 1870. He was buried in Poets' Corner in Westminster Abbey. He died 5 years and 3 days after getting into a horrible train accident that killed 10 people and injured another 49.

Charles Dickens wrote many books, including:


Portsmouth

Portsmouth is a city in the south of England, in the county of Hampshire. About 280,536 people live there (As Of 2017). It is a port and is the home of the British Royal Navy. It's the second-largest city in the county of Hampshire, behind Southampton. It is one of the most densely populated cities in Europe. Portsmouth is on Portsea Island and is narrowly separated from the mainland by a creek.

For centuries the city was one of the world's biggest places of shipbuilding. Some of its most famous ships that people can still see are HMS Victory and the HMS Warrior. People also visit Portsmouth to see the old ship Mary Rose. This was Henry VIII of England's ship, and it was under the water for a long time, from 1545 to 1982. Tourists also go to see Cumberland House, the birthplace of Charles Dickens, a British writer.

Charles Dickens, Rudyard Kipling and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle were all British writers who lived in Portsmouth.

It is home of the Football League One side Portsmouth F.C. They play at Fratton Park.

Portsmouth has one university, the University of Portsmouth.

North of the city is Cosham.


HMS Victory

HMS "Victory" is the oldest ship still in use. It is in Portsmouth, England with the HMS "Warrior" and the remains of the "Mary Rose", a ship belonging to Henry VIII of England. 

Her most famous captains are Horatio Nelson, who died on the ship during the Battle of Trafalgar, and Samuel Hood.


HMS Warrior (1860)

HMS "Warrior" was the first battleship with a hull made of iron. It was built in response to the French ironclad warship "Gloire". It is in Portsmouth, England with the HMS "Victory" and the remains of the "Mary Rose", a ship belonging to Henry VIII of England.


Mary Rose

The Mary Rose was a ship which belonged to Henry VIII of England. She sank in 1545 in battle with a French fleet.

In 1979, the "Mary Rose" Trust was formed. In 1982 the "Mary Rose" Trust managed to get the "Mary Rose" out of the sea. In 1994, they started to preserve her. 

The remains of the "Mary Rose" are currently in Portsmouth, England with the HMS "Victory" and HMS "Warrior".

It is not known the exact reason for the sinking. One of the theories is that she had the gun ports open to fire at the French. She then turned to fire at the other side, but the men on board failed to close the gun ports. Sea water got in the open gun ports, which tipped her over and she sank. 

The "Mary Rose" sank because the wind blew and tipped her over. 

Mary Tudor

The name Mary Tudor can refer to either:


1603

1603 (MDCIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday in the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Saturday in the Julian calendar.




