Natalie Imbruglia


Natalie Jane Imbruglia (born 4 February 1975) is an Australian actress and singer-songwriter. 

Imbruglia was born in Sydney, New South Wales to an Anglo-Australian mother and Italian-Australian father.

Imbruglia began acting in Australian television commercials and was in spots for Coca-Cola and the popular Australian snack Twisties. By age 16, she left high school to start a career in acting. She soon had the chance to play a regular role on the Australian soap opera "Neighbours". She left the show to move to London in 1994. 

She received an MTV Award for Best New Artist in 1998. She had 3 Grammy Award nominations in 1999. That same year, she also won two Brit Awards for Best International Newcomer and Best International Female. She has sold over 9 million albums worldwide.


Nicole Kidman

Nicole Mary Kidman, AC (born 20 June 1967) is an Australian - American actress, singer and film producer. She began acting in movies in 1983. She starred in various Australian movies and television shows. Her first major role was in "Dead Calm" in 1989.

Her performance in the musical "Moulin Rouge!" (2001) earned her a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actress. She later won the award in this category for playing Virginia Woolf in "The Hours" (2002).

Nicole Kidman appeared as Atlanna, Aquaman's mother, in the 2018 DC Comics - Warner Bros. movie "Aquaman" (2018). She played Lucille Ball in the 2021 biographical drama movie "Being the Ricardos". She won a Golden Globe Award and earned an Academy Award nomination in 2022 for her role as Ball.

Nicole Kidman was born in Honolulu, Hawaii while her Australian parents were temporarily in the United States on educational visas. Nicole Kidman can therefore claim citizenship in Australia and the United States. Her father, Antony David Kidman (1938 - 2014) was a biochemist, clinical psychologist, and author. Her mother, Janelle Ann (née Glenny), is a nursing instructor who edits her husband's books and was a member of the Women's Electoral Lobby. Nicole Kidman is of Scottish and Irish ancestry. At the time of Kidman's birth, her father was a graduate student at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. He soon became a visiting fellow at the National Institute of Mental Health of the United States. Opposed to the war in Vietnam, which was causing social unrest in both Australia and the United States, Kidman's parents participated in anti-war protests while they were living in Washington DC The family returned to Australia when Nicole Kidman was four and her parents now live on Sydney's North Shore. Nicole Kidman has a younger sister, Antonia Kidman, a journalist and TV presenter.

Kidman's first movie was in 1983. It was called "BMX Bandits". Her first famous movie was "Dead Calm" in 1989.
Her first major movie was called "Days of Thunder", which also starred Tom Cruise. They fell in love during the filming of that movie and married. Nicole Kidman was then in more movies like "Flirting", "Billy Bathgate", "Far and Away", "Malice", "My Life" and "To Die For". All of these movies were successes.

She was then in movies like "Batman Forever" and "Practical Magic". In 1999 she starred in a movie with Tom Cruise called "Eyes Wide Shut". They played a married couple in the movie. It was the last movie directed by director Stanley Kubrick. They separated and divorced after making "Eyes Wide Shut".

Since Kidman and Cruise divorced, she has been in movies including: "Moulin Rouge!", "The Others", "Cold Mountain", "The Stepford Wives" and "Bewitched".

She was married to Tom Cruise until 2001. She is now married to Keith Urban.

Hugh Jackman

Hugh Michael Jackman (born 12 October 1968) is an Australian actor, producer and singer. He plays on different roles and various genres of movies like action, comedy, drama, musical, romance and superhero.

Jackman was born on 12 October 1968 in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia to English parents. He is best known for his long-running role as Wolverine in the "X-Men" movie series. His performances in "The Fountain", "Les Misérables" and "Prisoners" garnered strong critical acclaim.

His work in "Les Misérables" earned him an Academy Award nomination for Best Actor and a Golden Globe Award in 2013. In theater, he won a Tony Award for his role in "The Boy from Oz".

A four-time host of the Tony Awards, winning an Emmy Award for one of these appearances, Jackman also hosted the 81st Academy Awards on 22 February 2009.

Jackman married Deborra-Lee Furness in 1996 in Melbourne. The couple adopted a son and daughter. The two separated in September 2023. Jackman has been described as one of the world's most attractive man, by various media outlets and his perceived sex appeal has been picked up by many sources, including "Empire", who named him one of the sexiest stars in movie history and "People", who named him one of the World's Most Beautiful People. In 2008 Jackman won "People"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Sexiest Man Alive.
Jackman appeared on "Forbes"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s annual Celebrity 100 list of the 100 most powerful celebrities and In 2013, he topped "Forbes"'s Most Powerful Actors list.

Jackman plays multiple sports, plays the guitar, piano and violin and does dancing. He is also a philanthropist.

In November 2013, Jackman announced he had skin cancer removed from his nose. He had a second cancer removed from his nose in May 2014, and said that the cancer will always return.




