D


D is the fourth (number 4) letter in the alphabet. It comes from the Greek Delta and the Phoenician Dalet.


E

E is the fifth (number 5) letter in the English alphabet. 

In English it has two main sounds when it is spoken. Usually it is a short E (ĕ), but sometimes it is a long E (ē). 

One more thing in English is the so-called magic E, also known as the silent E. That is when a silent e at the end of a word makes the previous vowel long. Examples: morpheme, which is pronounced as morphēm, and Name which is pronounced Nām.

The types of E include (but may not be limited to)
capital E
lower-case e
é È è Ê ê Ë
É ë Ě ě Ē ē
Ĕ ĕ Ė ė Ę ę

"None" of these different types are used in English, except occasionally É/é for some French words such fiancé, café, and crème brûlée.

These meanings are for E/e as a separate letter.

F

F is the sixth letter in the English alphabet.


G

G is the 7th (number 7) letter in the English alphabet (or Latin alphabet).
Ishraque Hossain

The letter G was created in the third century BC by Spurius Carvilius Ruga. At the time, the letter C sounded like the "c" in "cat" and the "g" in "girl". To make the difference more clear, Ruga created the letter G. 


H

H is the eighth (number 8) letter in the English alphabet. The uppercase letter for H is H and the lowercase letter for H is h. The letter’s name is aitch () or haitch ().


I

I is the ninth (9) letter in the English alphabet.

In English, I is a pronoun which means "me".

In Azerbaijani, Crimean Tatar, Gagauz and Turkish, the letter I has two kinds, one with a tittle (İ, i) and one without one (I, ı).

In Spanish, Í is used for a stressed I.


J

J is the tenth (number 10) letter in the English alphabet. It comes before the letter K and after the letter I. The letter was not used in the Roman civilization until 16th Century.


K

K is the eleventh (number 11) letter in the English alphabet.


L

L is the twelfth (number 12) letter in the English alphabet.


M

M is the 13th letter in the English alphabet.


N

N is the fourteenth (number 14) letter in the English alphabet.


O

O is the fifteenth (number 15) letter in the English alphabet and it has a shape of a circle.


P

"For technical reasons, :P redirects here. For the emoticon, see emoticons."

P is the sixteenth (number 16) letter in the English alphabet.



