Fuel cells and solar cells are not batteries because they do not store the energy inside them. 


A capacitor is not a battery because it does not store the energy in a chemical reaction. A capacitor can store electricity and create electricity much faster than a battery, but it usually costs too much to make it as big as a battery can be. Scientists and chemical engineers are working to make better capacitors and batteries for electric cars.

Small electrical generators operated by hand and foot can supply power in small electrical devices. Clockwork radios, clockwork torches and similar devices also have a wind-up spring to store mechanical energy.

Knife

A knife is a metal tool with a sharpened metal blade that is used to cut all sorts of things. The plural form of "knife" is "knives." Knives can serve various purposes. Hunters use a hunting knife, soldiers use the combat knife, scouts, campers, and hikers carry a pocketknife; there are kitchen knives for preparing foods, table knives, weapons, knives for throwing or juggling, and knives for religious ceremony or display. 

Archaeologists have discovered sharp-edged tools as ancient as 2.6 million years old. Sharp stone tools became more advanced in design during the late Lithic periods, and a variety of techniques was used to produce such ‘knives’ in the Neolithic era. The copper and bronze ages followed, and of course brought tremendous changes to the ‘sharp-edge’ technology. These new metal tools were much more durable than stone ones, and hence mining and metal-processing became an important activity.


There are many kinds of knives, depending on what is to be cut. With the right knife, the cuts you want to make will happen faster and more easily. With the wrong kind of knife, it will take more effort to perform the same amount of work. When a knife is too small to cut something, a saw, axe, or power tool may be needed.

Carrying knives is illegal in many countries, especially if the blade is longer than several inches. Another type of knife which is illegal in many places is the "switchblade," a knife that has a button which when pressed activates a spring to open the knife.


Nyngan, New South Wales

Nyngan is a town in New South Wales, Australia. It is built on the banks of the Bogan River. It is north west of Dubbo, and south east of Bourke in the Central West Plains of New South Wales. It is a town of 2500 people. It exists because of the people who work on the farms and in a copper mine, 50 kilometres to the west.

It remains also well known as one of the last depots of Cobb and Co, the famous inland transporter of the 19th century (1801 to 1900). One of the overnight depots was at Nyngan because it is about halfway between Dubbo and Bourke. In the days of Cobb and Co, the trip from Dubbo and Bourke would have taken at least 4 days.

However, the route they took is not the route that is used today. The new route runs beside the railway. The railway is a direct line from Dubbo to Nyngan. There is not a single bend for almost 160 kilometres. In the other direction, the track goes 190 kilometres dead straight the whole way to Bourke.

Film (disambiguation)

Film may refer to:

Photographic film

Photographic film is a sheet of plastic for recording visual scenes. The plastic has been specially treated to be sensitive to light. The image is recorded on the plastic when the plastic is exposed to light. Film is kept in small canisters (boxes) which protect it from the light. A normal photographic film may hold up to 40 pictures. 

Once all pictures have been recorded, the film has to undergo a special chemical treatment. This is called "developing a film" or film processing. That treatment makes the pictures visible (you can see them), and the exposed film is no longer sensitive to light. 

Different kinds of films exist. Some require more light to be exposed than others. Some are black and white only; they record no colors. There are also special films which can record infrared light. Photographic film was invented in the 1880s and replaced the earlier dry plate system. 

Films also come in different sizes. 35 millimeter film, the most used size, comes in metal cans or canisters, but there are other camera films that come in paper wrappings or in single sheets. 

Film can only be used once. After that, it cannot be used again (if it is accidentally used again, this results in an artifact called a multiple exposure). When not in use, film needs to be covered from light, otherwise it will record any lights that shine on it. This will make it useless to record a picture. Film comes in a can called a canister to cover it from light rays. 

Film needs the right amount of light to make a picture. If the picture is too bright or too dark, it will not record correctly. The longer that the film keeps recording, the more light it will get. If what is being photographed is bright, it will be recorded faster. If it is darker, the film will need more time to record. 

Films that need less time to record the picture are known as "faster" films. Different speeds of films are marked with an ISO number. The higher the number, the faster the films. Films can only make a picture from focused lights. If there is no lens to focus light, the film will only turn white from receiving just the light. If a film with an ISO level of 200 instead of 100 is used, it will only need half as much time to record a picture of the same scene.

Examples of ISO numbers are ISO 50, ISO 100, IS0 200, ISO 400, ISO 800, and ISO 1600. The ISO number is sometimes called the <nowiki>"ASA number" or the "film speed"</nowiki>. When the ISO number is low, for example ISO 50, the film takes a long time to record the picture. This is called a slow film. This means the shutter has to stay open for a long time. When the ISO number is high, for example ISO 800, the picture is made in a very short time. This is a fast film. This means the shutter has to open and close quickly.

Before photographic film was invented, photography used glass dry plates. In the 21st century, digital cameras have replaced film cameras for most uses. Film is still made, and many professional photographers and cinematographers prefer film.


Compass

A compass is a navigational tool that uses magnetism. It has an arrow which points in the direction of the North Magnetic Pole. or other places where there are few landmarks.

The first compass was invented by ancient Chinese in the Han Dynasty. It was a large spoon-like magnetic object made of magnetite ore set upon a square bronze plate.


Ferdinand Magellan

Ferdinand Magellan (1480 – 27 April 1521) was a Portuguese explorer. He became the first European to sail the Pacific Ocean, and the first to sail around the world. Magellan's voyage proved that the Earth was round.2

Born in 1480, his birthplace is recorded as either Sabrosa or Porto in Portugal. He worked in the royal court. Since his parents were members of the Portuguese nobility and after their deaths, Magellan became a page for the queen at the age of 10. In the royal court where he learned many important skills, including map making, navigation and astronomy. In 1505 he joined the navy. When he worked for Portugal, he went to many parts of the world, such as India, the Spice Islands, East Africa, and Morocco. When in Morocco in 1513 Magellan was wounded, and walked the remainder of his life with a limp. After he lost his job for the King of Portugal, he went to work for the King of Spain.

He was also the first to sail through the Strait of Magellan, so it was named after him. Magellan himself was killed in the Philippines, on 27 April 1521 in Mactan during a battle with the natives after he was accused of stealing.

Charles V of Spain provided him with five ships for the voyage round the world. Only one ship, the "Victoria", completed the voyage.magellan died in april 27, 1521{aged 40-41} mactan, phlipines killes by lapulapu. nationality of magellan is portuguese known for the first to sail around the world


Henry the Navigator

Henry the Navigator was born in 1394 and died in 1460. He was a prince from Portugal, the third son of King John I of Portugal. He was called Infant Dom Henrique in Portuguese. He was never a navigator himself. He got his name because he organized many ocean voyages on which lands were found. He is seen as the man who started the Age of Discovery. 

He opened a navigation school in Portugal, so the technology of tools and ships could be made better. One of these developments was the caravel. His explorers discovered the first shipping routes directly from Europe to Asia for the Portuguese monarchy.

Concrete

Concrete is an important material for making different buildings and structures. It is a composite made of Portland cement, sand, gravel or rock aggregate, and water. The amount of each can change depending upon what the concrete will be used for. 

Concrete is used more than any other man-made material in the world. As of 2006, about 7.5 billion cubic meters of concrete are made each year—more than one cubic meter for every person on Earth.

The ingredients are mixed together into a paste, a bit like making dough for bread. The concrete is then poured into a frame. After a few hours it sets hard. Concrete solidifies due to a chemical reaction known as hydration. The water reacts with the cement, which bonds the other components together, eventually creating a strong stone-like material. 

Concrete is used to make pavements, pipe, architectural structures, dams, foundations, motorways, bridges, multi-story parking, walls, footings for gates, fences and poles and even boats.
Its biggest advantage is that it bonds together bricks and stones better than any other method known to mankind. 

Concrete is strong in compression but weak in tension. For some purposes it needs to be reinforced with steel rods. Reinforced concrete buildings can be made to link all the parts together, the foundations, walls, floors and roofs, but concrete construction does not make buildings earthquake-proof.

Concrete is as old as 5600 BC. It was not invented by Romans, but much used by them. Some kinds of concrete are waterproof, and some kinds even set underwater.

Its importance was great for civilizations which were not in near-desert conditions. They needed something to stand up to the rain. Fired bricks and concrete were two things they invented. These inventions let you build almost anywhere on land. Otherwise you rely on nearby sources of rock, as the Egyptians did, or on wood.

There are many additives to make concrete set faster, set slower, set stronger, reduce corrosion and so on. The Romans discovered that adding volcanic ash produced a concrete which would set under water. The Romans also knew that adding horse hair made concrete less liable to crack as it set, and that adding blood made it more frost-resistant.

Modern concrete was made in 1756 by British engineer John Smeaton. He added pebbles and powdered brick to the cement. In 1824, English inventor Joseph Aspdin invented Portland cement, which has remained the main cement used in concrete production. He burnt ground-up limestone and clay together. The burning process changed the chemical properties of the materials. Aspdin created a stronger cement than crushed limestone alone could produce.

The 19th century saw the invention of reinforced concrete by French gardener Joseph Monier in 1849 (patented in 1867). François Coignet studied and improved it. This is concrete with steel bars in it, called rebars (reinforcing bars). Glass fibre or plastic fibre is beginning to replace steel bars.

Many modern chemicals can be added to the mixture to achieve special objectives. 'Superplasticizers' are chemicals which improve workability, which means the ability to shape the concrete before it has set. Pigments can change the dull grey colour. Corrosion inhibitors can reduce rusting on the steel bars. 'Air entrainment' is blowing little bubbles in the concrete before it sets. This helps the concrete survive the freezing and thawing of a cold climate. Blast furnace slag can be mixed with concrete. It turns the colour into almost pure white and makes the concrete stronger.

Concrete is not an attractive material. It is functional, does the job of standing up to rain, frost, and great loads when reinforced. But it is grey and ugly. This is the reason many concrete structures make use of cladding. Cladding is used for many concrete walls, internally and externally. At present great efforts are made to make sure the cladding is fire-resistant.

Cladding has a long history. It was certainly used by the Romans. Parts of the Roman Colosseum originally had marble veneer. The holes for attaching the veneer are still visible.



