3 (number)


The number three (3) is one more than two and one less than four. It is the first Mersenne prime. Three is an important number for many cultures (groups of people living together). It is also a prime number. It is the first odd prime. In Roman numerals, it is III.


10 (number)

10 (Ten ) is the number that is after nine and before eleven. Most people have ten fingers and ten toes.

Ten is the smallest positive whole number with two digits. Ten is an important number because most people write numbers using multiples of ten. This is called the decimal number system.

In Roman numerals, 10 is written as X.

Man

A man is an adult male human. He is the opposite of a woman. People use the word "man" (one "man", two or more "men") to talk about gender. Manhood is the period in a male's life after he changes from a boy. A boy is a male child; a female child is called a girl. After boys reach maturity, they can be called a man.

Like most other male mammals, a man inherits an X chromosome from his mother and a Y chromosome from his father. The men's rights movement is a group that tries to fight for men's rights and opposes misandry.

There are also those who identify as a man even though they biologically are not one (they do not have XY chromosomes). They are also referred to as a man.

There are some sexual differences between a man and a woman. Men have sex organs which we call "external" (not inside the body). But many parts of the male reproductive system are internal too. The study of male reproduction and sex organs is "andrology".

Men normally have the same illnesses as women, but there are some sexual illnesses which men have only, or more often.

There are more differences between men and women, not only sexual differences.

Some examples of secondary sexual characteristics in male humans:

Men are usually taller than women. In 1996, the average height of men around the world was 171 cm.

Biology is not the only thing which makes people feel they are men, or that other people are men. Some people were born in a female body but feel that they are men. We call these "transgender" or "transsexual" men. Some men can have a hormone or chromosomal difference (for example "androgen insensitivity syndrome"). Some men have other intersex conditions. Some of those intersex people who people said were female (girls) when they were born want to change this later in their lives.

Woman

A woman is an adult female human. The plural of "woman" is "women". Young human females are called "girls". The word "women" is sometimes used to refer to females of any age (as in the phrase "Women's rights") 

Women usually have less hair on their faces and bodies than men. After they finished puberty, and before menopause, women are usually able to get pregnant and give birth to babies.

Women have historically been treated differently from men. They have also been expected to act differently. In many places, the treatment of and expectations for women have changed with the spread of women's rights in the 20th century. Transgender women are male but socially live as women, and attracted more attention in the late 20th to early 21st century.

Women have sex organs including a vagina, uterus, and ovaries from birth. After they become adults, women also have breasts to make milk for babies. 

Women's bodies are usually different than men's bodies in some other ways, including:

Women are usually shorter than men. In 1996, the average height of women around the world was 159 cm.

Between the end of puberty and menopause, a woman can become pregnant. Women go through puberty usually when they are between ten and sixteen years old. The menopause usually starts in the late forties, and ends in the early fifties. Between these ages, women go through a menstrual cycle, once a month. If such a woman has sex with a man, at the right time of the month, and no contraception is used, the woman may get pregnant. 

A woman who has sex with a man, at the right time, may get pregnant, if no contraception is used. Contraception will stop a pregnancy. When she gets pregnant, the ovum of her menstrual cycle will be fertilized, and attach itself to the wall of the uterus. In humans, a pregnancy usually takes about 38 weeks. After this time, a child is born. For childbirth, a woman usually gets help from specially-trained people, called midwives. During the pregnancy, the woman should regularly see a doctor. Very often, these doctors are specialized, and are called gynecologists or obstetricians. 

After the child is born, the woman will breast-feed her child for some time. 

Sometimes women who are very young get pregnant. These pregnancies are known as teenage pregnancies; very often, they are more difficult than normal ones.

If a woman had sex with a man, and no contraception was used, there's the risk of her getting pregnant. If she does not want to get pegnant, she has some time to take what is called emergency contraception. Emergency contraception protects against unwanted pregnancies, as it keeps the pregnancy from starting. It does not protect against sexually-transmitted diseases. Also, it will not work all the time. Very often, women who want to get emergency contaception also need to spend some time with a professional in a counselling session. Depending on the country, emergency contraception may not be available, or it may not be legal.

Humans also have the possibility to stop a pregnancy, when it has started. Stopping a pregnancy is called abortion. When people do it on purpose, it is called "induced abortion". Pregnancies that stop on their own are called "spontaneous abortion", miscarriage or stillbirth. Depending on the country or region, a pregnancy can be stopped at any time, or there are limits, for how long it can be stopped. Pregnancies that have gone on longer are generally more difficult to stop. 

Many countries have laws that say for what reasons, a pregnancy can be stopped. One of a common set of reason is that continuing the pregnancy would be dangerous to the woman. Another common reason is that the pregnancy was the result of a rape (the woman did not want to have sex with a person). Still another would be that the child would be born with certain birth defects. All of these reasons vary by country. In some countries, they also vary by area. Some countries are very liberal, others are more restrictive. Some countries or territories do not allow abortion at all.

During the pregnancy, the woman will change too. There are many things a woman should no longer do. Many drugs have a bad effect on the child growing inside her. The woman therefore needs to watch the drugs that she takes, and she needs to tell the people who give her the drugs (at the pharmacy) that she is pregnant. Note that drinking alcohol, or smoking cigarettes also has a bad effect on the unborn.

In humans, a pregnancy lasts 266 days, on average. Most children are born within two weeks of the calculated date. Only four percent of the children are born on the calculated date. With birth, the unborn child leaves the womb.There are certain signs that a birth is about to occur:


A woman giving birth will feel pain, much more pain than other animals (such as the Great Apes).This is mainly due to the fact that the head is big, and the pelvis is rather small. 

In many countries, hospitals are specially equipped to handle births. Giving birth at a hospital has the benefit that the woman can get help faster, if anything goes wrong. For this reason, most births happen at a hospital.

In some cases, people can also give birth at home.

Some countrires allow a woman to give birth anoymously. That way, the woman does not have to give her name, or much other personal information. The baby will then be given up for adoption, so that another couple can raise the child.

In many countries there are hospitals with baby hatches. A woman can put her child in such a hatch. The baby will be raised and cared for, and it will be given up for adoption. Many women who are unable to raise the child use baby hatches.

Women have historically had less control over their lives than men. They have often been forbidden to own land, vote, hold political office, or choose whom they marry and discouraged from voicing political opinions or attending school. Since the beginning of the 20th century women have gained many rights in most of the developed world. 

Women have also historically faced a lot of sexual violence, harassment, and discrimination. The amount of sexual violence, harassment, and discrimination has decreased with the spread of women's rights, but many women still face these problems.

Women have historically been expected to bear and raise children, limit their public lives, and allow their male relatives to make decisions for them. These expectations have changed with the spread of women's rights.

Before modern societies, education of women was limited. In developed countries, most women have access to education, and even perform better than men at many levels. In the United States in 2005 and 2006, women have earned 62% of associate degrees, 58% of bachelor's degrees, 60% of master's degrees, and 50% of doctorates.

Education, especially for women, has become more common in most countries in the 20th and 21st centuries than it was previously.

In most countries, women work, like men. Their jobs are sometimes different, and sometimes their work is what society expects. In jobs, that have ot do wirth education, or with healthcare, there are generally more women than men. If women and men do the same job, women often earn less for their work. This is known as gender pay gap. Also, there are fewer women in leading roles of companies. 

Some women have become successful politicians. In 2019, about a quarter of all politicians were female. Nordic countries were in the lead, with over 42%. The fewest female politicians can be found in Oceania, with just over 16%, Middle East and North Africa, with 19%, and Asiatic countries with just under 20%.

In most countries, women have the same rights to vote, and to get elected than men. This has not always been the case. The question, whether women should be able to vote is called women's suffrage. Only very few countries in the world do not allow women to vote or to get elected. 

Throughout history, women have made contributions to science, literature, and art. There were many female writers, but many published their work under a male name. In music, women have been composers, songwriters, performers, singers, conductors, scholars, teachers, critics and more.

In the 18th century, biologists began using the symbol for the goddess Venus (♀️) as indicating a female plant or animal. It is often used for women.

"Femininity" (also called "womanliness" or "girlishness") is a set of attributes, behaviors, and roles generally associated with women and girls. Feminity is a social construct, which is different in different societies. Some behaviors considered feminine are biologically influenced. People do not agree about the extent in which femininity is sociallly or biologically influenced. It is distinct from the definition of the biological female sex, as both men and women can have feminine traits.

Position

Position is a way to explain where something is.

The words which indicate position are called prepositions.

To find which is your left hand side, hold your hands palms down, point your index fingers and stick your thumbs out at right angles. The finger and thumb of your "left" hand will form a capital letter L. 

If the letter L you make is reversed, you found your right hand. Left and right are called opposite sides.

Middle is between "up" and "down" and is between "left" and "right".
Middle means the same as "center".

Far means that something is a long way away from you. Near means it is "close" to you. Things can also be near and far other persons and other things.
In many sports, the term "position" is used to show what occupation a person has on their team. For example, in baseball, positions include catcher, shortstop and pitcher.

In various activities such as dance and yoga, the static arrangement of the body and its parts is called a position, for example in an arabesque (ballet).

The position of something is where that thing is in space and time. Usually people use Cartesian coordinates to write down a position. So a scientist might say that the balloon was at "x", "y", "z" when it popped at a certain time. 
The position of a person is his status or responsibility in a community or group of people. It is called rank in the army.
In a factory the manager is a typical position.

Right

Right might mean:


Arundel Castle

Arundel Castle is a castle in Arundel, West Sussex, England. It was built by Edward the Confessor.


Quakers

The Religious Society of Friends is a group with Christian roots that began in England in the 1650s. The group's formal title is the Society of Friends, or the Religious Society of Friends.
People in the Society of Friends are called "Friends" or Quakers, which mean the same thing. Most Quakers are Christian, but the group today includes a few other people. They live all over the world, but the largest groups are in Kenya, the United States, Bolivia, Guatemala, the United Kingdom, and Burundi.

The Society of Friends began in the 1650s in England. A man, named George Fox, spent several years struggling to figure out how to be a good Christian. He finally heard God's voice telling him that Christ would make it clear to him what he should do. Fox went around preaching to people and told them they could talk to God themselves and that they did not need a priest or minister to do it for them. He told them that if they listened within themselves, they would hear Christ telling them what to do. Fox found other people who had similar experiences. Together, they started a religious movement, which later became the Religious Society of Friends.

The government of England did not like the new group since at the time, the law required people to belong to the Church of England. Many Friends were put into jail or made to pay money as a punishment. At first, the word "Quaker" was a name used to make fun of the Friends, but after a while, many of those people came to like it and use it for themselves.

Seeking freedom of religion, some Quakers moved away to places like America. A young Quaker named William Penn started a new colony there. He got the land because King Charles II of England owed his father a lot of money. The new colony was called Pennsylvania, and it was a place for people to belong to any religion. Penn wanted people to be fair to one another, and he called the biggest city in his new colony Philadelphia, which means "The City of Brotherly Love." Soon, many Quakers were in America.

The Quakers were very active in America in the 19th century 1800s. Many of the leaders of the abolitionist and the women's rights movements, such as Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Lucretia Mott, were Quakers.

Today, there are about 375,000 Quakers in the world. This number is very small compared to other religious groups. Even so, many people have heard of the Quakers, because they have worked hard to make the world fairer and more just.

Quaker worship services are called "meetings for worship". They start with everybody sitting quietly, trying to listen to God. Sometimes, Quakers will feel that God wants them to say something. When that happens, the person stands up and tells everyone. Then, they all sit quietly again. At some meetings, many people will speak. At other meetings, nobody speaks. Quakers feel that a meeting for worship helps them to understand what God wants. Usually, worship lasts about an hour.

Anyone may go to a Quaker meeting.

Quakers also have meetings for worship for weddings and funerals. When two people get married, the meeting is about them and the life that they will live together. When people have died, the meeting is about remembering things about them and the life that they had.

Many Quakers in North America, South America, and Africa have a different kind of worship service that is like other Christian services. They sing hymns, and a pastor gives a sermon. They also have a quiet time, but it does not last as long. Those Quakers often have strong Christian beliefs.

At other times, the meetings also decide what Quakers should do, which can be called "meetings for business" but also "meetings for worship for business" because they include parts of both worship and business.

Quakers seek religious truth in their inner experiences. They rely on conscience to guide what they do. They emphasise direct experience of God rather than ritual or ceremony. They believe that priests and rituals are unnecessary to get between the believer and God. What Quakers say matches what they do.

Almost all Quakers share these beliefs:

Size

The size of something is how much space the thing takes. It can also be described as how big or small something is.

Sizes can be measured. When a size is measured, it is given a number.

"Small" and "big" are opposites.



