Adware


Adware is an advertising computer program that can be put there by other people on someone's computer, sometimes without their permission. It is controversial because sometimes businesses put the program there so they can see what people are doing or what web pages they are browsing. They then put an advertisement that is of the same subject as the web-page the person is looking at. This can be good if the person is trying to buy something, but many people do not want advertisements. Many people also do not want other people to find out what they are doing or what web pages they are looking at. An example is in the popular peer-to-peer file sharing program, Kazaa. When someone downloads it, it installs adware on their computer that then sends advertisements to the computer. Some people do not like this so they use an illegally changed version of this program called Kazaa Lite.

Removal tools have been developed to assist users in clearing out these unwanted programs.
Like many programs that people use for security, the program must be changed often. Updating allows the removal tool to recognize new types of adware. This can be done by downloading files over the internet using the 'update' option in the program.

Gender

Gender is a word that is used to talk about how people express masculine (traits most people think of as male) or feminine (traits most people think of as female) traits. 

"Gender" comes from the Latin word genus which meant "kind" or "type". In the few hundred years before the 1950s, the term 'gender' was used only in the field of grammar. In 1955, a scientist began to use the word "gender" in new ways when referring to people, in a way that was related to their 'sex' but not quite the same. The term was not applied to other animals. They continued to have different “sexes”.

Before the 1950s, the term 'gender' was used only in the field of grammar, and only to distinguish a category of words that are called 'feminine nouns' from other words that are 'masculine nouns'. Early Indo-European languages~had three genders. Languages that come from Latin like Spanish, French, and Italian have lost one, and their nouns are either feminine or masculine in gender. For example, in Spanish, 'house' ("casa") is feminine, and 'day' ("día") is masculine. Some languages still have three genders, like German. Outside of their grammatical category, the word 'gender' was not used to refer to people. At that time, when one spoke about someone being either 'male' or 'female', the word used was "sex".

Merriam Webster officially recognized the pronoun "they" as a singular use pronoun in 2019. According to the dictionary, the word had actually been used as a non-gender binary pronoun since the 1300s. Around the time Merriam Webster made this announcement, artist Sam Smith announced that their correct pronouns were actually they/them. Typically, for those who identify as female, the correct pronouns are she/her, and for males, he/him.

Many people use the terms "sex " and "gender" interchangeably. Some people now assign them two different meanings. They use the term "sex" to refer to the biological assignment of an individual, which is often based on scientific knowledge. This biological determination is often made at birth. Doctors often assign sex by looking at pre-natal images or directly inspecting genitalia at birth. This determination is still based on our beliefs on gender and sex being the same. The problem lies in what happens when an individual falls outside of the typical categories of "male" or "female". Some medical professionals have turned to the Karyotype method to look at the sex chromosomes to determine biological sex. "Gender", on the other hand, is considered by some to be more of a psychological factor. To them, gender is determined by our expressions, and behaviors rather than scientific knowledge.

Gender has been described by using terms such as man, woman, or transsexual. These terms are applied to people based on their sex, or sometimes on the basis of culturally constructed characteristics. Although many people may be biologically assigned a sex, the gender they believe themselves to be may not align with this sex. An individual's gender is often assumed by outsiders based on cultural norms: outward appearance, body shape and size, physical activity, etc. Although an individual's gender identity is determined by psychology, a gender identity can be constructed by wearing particular clothing, language, actions and such, that are associated with that gender in a given society. Psychologist and feminist anthropologist Anne Fausto-Sterling calls this embodiment.

In 1955, John Money created the term gender role and began to use it to mean something different from sex. Gender roles are how a society views different genders and how they should act. An example of this would be how some people believe feminine or female people should cook and clean rather than play sports. These roles change over time and differ based on different cultures, but are often ideas that are created by people rather than coming from nature.

The term identity means the mental image someone has of themselves as well as some kind of similarity with others in some particular way. Gender identity refers to the experiences someone has that are similar to a person of a particular gender. This gender identity affects how a person views themself as well as how they interact with others. Developmental psychologists have found that the development of an identity begins in early adolescence. Learning about what it means to be a particular gender also starts at an early age. During adolescence, children begin to internalize the gender roles in their surroundings and "gender intensification" occurs. Gender intensification means that the child feels more pressure to conform to socially sanctioned gender norms, resulting in deeper gender role differentiation for boys and girls. Biology can affect gender identity development as well. Research done with animals has shown that pre-natal sex hormones affect the sexual differentiation of the brain.

‘Binary’ comes from the Latin word bini meaning two together. As such binary refers to an idea in which there are only two possible options that are often opposite. This is how most people thought of gender throughout history in many parts of the world with male and female being the only two options. This can lead to a society with strict gender roles that are in place for a long time. People think that those are natural or biological roles that each option has to conform to at birth. Examples of this are women who are not allowed access to education or jobs or men who are expected to not be emotional or soft. Strict binary gender roles are also often tied to reasons for oppression of sexualities outside of the majority. Societies often enforce gender binaries due to concepts like tradition and the idea that their stability relies on keeping this binary in place.

The term LGBTQ is constantly evolving and adding terms to the acronym as knowledge of the community becomes more widely known. As of 2020, the acronym has expanded to LGBTQQIAAP, which stands for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Queer, Questioning, Intersex, Asexual, Ally, and Pansexual. The community is, however, mostly referred to as the LGBTQ+ community.

Intersex is the word used to describe the condition where a person has genitals that are not clearly male or female. There is a variety of ways this condition may physically manifest including infants that have an enlarged clitoris or a combination of elements of both the male and female genitalia. Sex assignment is often performed on infants that have obvious intersex characteristics. This is often referred to as intersex genital mutilation. Some have suggested that medically unnecessary surgeries such as intersex genital mutilation be delayed until the child is old enough to make a medically informed decision with counseling. Many intersex individuals may even go their whole lives without knowing that they are intersex due to a chromosomal abnormality. Typically, females' sex chromosomes are XX and males XY, however, X (Turner syndrome), XXY (Klinefelter syndrome), XXXY, XXXXY, and XYY are other possibilities.

Although many societies still exist under a gender binary, more and more around the world are becoming more accepting of ideas of gender outside of strict male and female categories. People outside the binary have always existed but have not always been free to express themselves. People who are transgender were labeled based on their biological sex, but eventually come to realize that label does not fit what they identify with. Some people do not experience gender in a way that fits into a binary at all, and these people are called either non binary or genderqueer. Intersexuality is not a well accepted or understood idea in most places, since most people have never heard of it or are willing to accept people who are.

Dutch language

Dutch () is a West Germanic language. It comes from the Netherlands and is the country's official language. It is also spoken in the northern half of Belgium (the region called Flanders), and in the South American country of Suriname. A language known as "Afrikaans" was developed from Dutch by the people in southern Africa and is now spoken mainly in South Africa but also in nearby Namibia. About 22 million people around the world speak Dutch.

Dutch is a West Germanic language The West Germanic branch is divided into English, Frisian, German and Dutch. Dutch has a similar vocabulary and grammar to English but is closer to German.

The North Germanic languages of Danish, Norwegian, Swedish and Icelandic are also part of the Germanic language branch. Dutch is also in some cases like those languages.

The Dutch of before 1170 is called "Old Dutch" (Oudnederlands). The Dutch between 1170 and 1500 is called "Middle Dutch" (Middelnederlands), which is also called "Diets" and so that is why it is called Dutch in English. The word "Dutch" itself came from the Proto-Germanic word "", which means "language of the common people" and then was also used to refer to the Germans and their language. Over time, the Modern English usage now refers to that the Netherlands, not the Germans. The Dutch word for German, "Duits", comes from the same origin.

The oldest Dutch book known is "Wachtendonckse Psalmen", which was written in 900. The first Dutch writer known by name is Hendrik van Veldeke, who was born around 1150.

Dutch uses the letters of the same Roman alphabet as English.

Note: The e can also be a schwa (like in "the")

Note: The short vowels (a, e, i, o, u) are pronounced long in open syllables (explaned further down below).

Vowels are said differently on the if the syllable is "open" or "closed". If a syllable is open, short written vowels are said as long ones. However, short written vowels are said short if the syllable is closed.:

There is, however, an exception to this rule. This is the "e". This is because "e" can also be a "mute e" (Schwa) (IPA character ə). In most words, where an open syllable ends with e it is a short e. Therefore, open syllables with a long e (ee) are written as ee. Example:

There are, however, exceptions to this rule as well. This can be seen in the word "meenemen". This word can be divided into three syllables: mee|ne|men. The e's in the first two syllables are long ones, but the last one is a mute e.

The mute e also occurs in the ending of verbs (usually -en).


Note: In words that end with "-d", the "-d" is pronounced like "-t".

The grammar of Dutch is slightly more complex than that of English. Word order in sentences is different in complex sentences. The basic simple sentence-structure is subject-verb.

Dutch has few grammatical "tenses". These are most used:

The most simple verb-time is the onvoltooide tegenwoordige tijd (ott; present simple). The ott is used when something happens "now", or "regularly" (like "Hij eet regelmatig" (He eats regularly)). Most verbs are conjugated (changed) in a regular form (these verbs are called "regelmatige werkwoorden" (regular verbs)). The word stem of the verb is still there in all of the conjugations (verb changes). The correct way of doing so is

Note: The stem of a verb is the infinitive of the verb without the "-en". In some verbs, the first syllable is open and so any vowel is long. The stem changes to a written long vowel so the stem of "lopen" becomes "loop". If the "-en" is then added to the stem (like with "wij"), the written form becomes short again, but it is still said as a long vowel).

The past form of the ott is the "onvoltooid verleden tijd" (ovt; past simple). How verbs are conjugated (changed) in the ovt is not easy to understand. Mistakes are common because some verbs are add a D, but others add a T. The "'t kofschip" rule is that the verb without "-en" (the stem in most verbs) ends with a consonant, which is also in "'t kofschip", the verb is changed with a T:

The verb can now be changed as the following:

There are some words for which "'t kofschip" is not so easy. In "vrezen" (to fear), the stem of the verb is "vrez", but the singular form is "vrees" and it looks as if it is changed with a T. However, it changes to a D because "vrezen" without "-en" is "vrez". The Z is not in "'t kofschip" and so the verb is changed to a D.

The verb can now be changed as follows:

Although Dutch has "present continuous" (the -ing form of verbs in English), it is not used often:

Actually, there are three types of continuous verbs in Dutch.

 " hallo " (hello)

 " een " (one)

In number with three digits (e.g. 100), the Dutch change the u into o and replace 1 of the r's. Example:

Creative Commons licenses

The Creative Commons licenses relates to the name of several copyright licenses released on December 16, 2002. The licenses were released by "Creative Commons", a United States nonprofit corporation. Everybody can put their own creations under these licenses.

There are four basic license conditions. A simple overview of these four:


It is possible to combine the license elements to allow people to use a work under certain conditions. For example, a combination of the first and fourth is called "CC BY-SA". This stands for "Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike". With this license other people can use the work for free, but they must give credit to the original creator, and when they make something new with the work they must give it the same "CC BY-SA" license.

The Free Software Foundation thinks that the Creative Commons system is confusing, because people often forget to tell which of the licenses they use. Instead they suggest to use the Free Art license.




