This is a list of the main towns and cities of Devon:



"Note: The links below are not in simple English."

Latin script

The Latin or Roman script is a writing system used to write many modern-day languages including English. It is the most used writing system in the world today. It is the official script for nearly all the languages of Western Europe and of some Eastern European languages. It is also used by some non-European languages such as Turkish, Vietnamese, Malay, Indonesian, Somali, Swahili and Tagalog. It is an alternative writing system for languages such as Serbian and Hindi.

The alphabet is a writing system which evolved from a western variety of the Greek alphabet. It was the Etruscans who first developed it after borrowing the Greek alphabet, and the Romans developed it further. The sounds of some letters changed, some letters were lost and gained and several writing styles ('hands') developed. Two such styles were combined into one script with upper and lower case letters ('capitals' and 'small letters'). Modern capital letters differ only slightly from their Roman counterparts. There are few regional variations.

The Latin alphabet used by the Romans:
676777

The modern version of the alphabet is used for writing many languages. Indo-European languages, especially those of Western Europe, are mostly written with the Latin alphabet. These languages include the Germanic languages (which includes English, German, Swedish, and others) and the Romance languages (which includes French, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese and others). There are of course Indo-European languages that do not use the Latin alphabet, like Greek, Russian, and Persian, as well as non-Indo-European languages that do, like Turkish and Vietnamese.

Nearly all languages using the Roman alphabet include diacritics, which are symbols found above or below the letters. They are used for things such as tones and pronunciation. English is the only major European language that does not have any of these marks, at least not for native words. Words taken from other languages sometimes use diacritics to make clear the correct pronunciation.

The basic alphabet uses the following letters (extra letters in bold):

The Roman script has fewer letters than the sounds in some of the languages that use it. Some languages make up for the lack of letters by using diacritic marks, such as ă, â, á, à, ä, é, ë, í, î, ó, ö, ô, ẹ, ị, ọ, ụ, ã, ả, ẻ, ỉ, ỏ, ủ, ñ, ç, č, ď, ě, ľ, ł, ň, ř, ŕ, š, ș, ť, ț, ú, ů, ü, ý, ž, đ and other similar. In effect, this increases the number of letters in their alphabet. Languages which use "some" of these characters are French, Czech, Polish, Hungarian, Romanian, Spanish, Turkish, Tagalog, Vietnamese, Esperanto, Igbo and many other. 

Many languages changed their writing systems to the Latin script. In some countries, Europeans made native people use it. The Vietnamese language was written in Chinese characters, and there is a Chinese-based Vietnamese writing system called chu nom. However, Chinese script requires a large number of characters to be learnt before a person can be truly literate. The Vietnamese government switched to the Latin alphabet in the early 20th century so they could increase the country's literacy rates. The Vietnamese kept using the Latin alphabet even after independence since it was much faster to learn than Chinese characters (chu nom). 

After the Russian Revolution, when the Russian Empire fell, the Latin alphabet in Turkic countries was started by Azerbaijan in 1918. When the Soviet Union broke up, some of its smaller languages began using the Latin alphabet. It is now used in Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and Azerbaijan. Kazakhstan announced in 2018 that the Latin alphabet would become the Kazakh language's main writing system.

Changing the way a language is written to Latin letters is called romanization. Many people who do not speak the language read a romanized version to know roughly how the words will sound, even if that is not the normal way to write the language. Some languages, like Chinese and Japanese, use the Latin alphabet in their languages so that they can be typed on a computer more easily. In mainland China, pinyin is the official romanization for Mandarin Chinese, and it is used to type Chinese characters on the computer by typing them phonetically. Even though many Japanese computers have kana keyboards to type Japanese on the computer, Japanese can also be typed using the Latin alphabet. Software called IME (input method editor) converts the Latin letters, called romaji in Japanese, into Japanese kana and kanji.


Insectivore

An insectivore is an animal or insect that eats mostly insects for food. An anteater is an animal that eats ants. Insectivorous plants also eat insects. The Venus flytrap is one of them.

To eat insects for food is not very easy because insects are small. Large insect-eating animals must eat many of them. Anteaters eat hundreds of ants every day.

Some omnivores like humans and bears also eat insects for food. There was once a taxonomic group of mammals called Insectivora. Most of its animals are now called Eulipotyphla.


Copy

Copy means a thing that is made to look like another thing.


Vapor

Vapor (British English: vapour) is when small drops of liquid float in the air. Sometimes this happens because the liquid has been heated. Vapor is not the same as gas. It is a mixture of liquid and gas. The usual word for this is steam.

Vehicle

A vehicle is a machine to move people and things. A vehicle is not alive. A horse can move people and things, but it is an animal, not a machine or a vehicle.

The word vehicle is borrowed from French and Latin. French "véhicule", going back to Middle French, borrowed from Medieval Latin "vehiculum" "medium, agent of transmission," going back to Latin, "wheeled vehicle, means of transport," from "vehere" "to carry, convey.

Some vehicles move on land. Most land vehicles have wheels. Examples of land vehicles are bicycles, cars, motorcycles, and trains.

Land vehicles that are powered by an engine or motor are called motor vehicles.

Some land vehicles, like tanks and snowmobiles, have tracks. These tracks look and work like conveyor belts.

Some vehicles move on, or in, the water. Examples are boats, ships, and submarines.

Vehicles that move in the sky are called aircraft. Examples are aeroplanes and balloons.

Some vehicles, like the Space Shuttle, can even leave the Earth's orbit and go to outer space.

Vehicles can be propelled by various sources of energy.


Some vehicles have no propulsion power. Examples are gliders, balloons and even fixed tower cranes.

Line dance

Line dancing is a form of group dancing that is done to either country or hip-hop music. The term line dance is derived from the idea that the group of people participating in the dance are all facing the same direction when conducting the series of moves in the line dance. A line dance can go from 32 beats upwards of up to 92 beats per minutes, and can also be either a 4 or 2 wall dance. When the dance starts off everyone is facing the front wall, after all of the counts of the dance are complete (let's say we were doing a 32 count dance) then everyone would finish the dance facing either the back wall or the left or right wall. One example of a line dance is the "Men In Black" line dance. This dance is usually done to a hip-hop song, such as "Yeah 3X", by Chris Brown. Once the first 32 counts of the dance are completed everyone will finish the dance facing the left wall, and would have turned one quarter to their left counter clockwise. Once the series of moves is completed 4 times the group will end up facing the front wall again.

Three Kingdoms of Korea

The Three Kingdoms of Korea were Goguryeo, Baekje and Silla. They existed between the 1st century BC and 7th century CE. There were some smaller kingdoms like Gaya, Dongye, Okjeo, Buyeo, Usan, Tamna, etc.

Baekje helped spread Chinese characters, Chinese culture, Han Buddhism, and other technology to Japan.

The Three Kingdoms period ended in 668: Silla allied with the Tang Dynasty to conquer Baekje and then Goguryeo. Korea unified under Later Silla. The Tang occupied the northern parts of Korea. After this Korea split during the North and South States period.

Besides Chinese records, the books "Samguk Sagi" and "Samguk Yusa" also record the history of the era"." "Samguk" (Hangul: 삼국, Hanja: 三國) means "Three Kingdoms". 

Eckernförde

Eckernförde (, sometimes also "Egernfjord", , sometimes also "Eckernföör") is a German city in Schleswig-Holstein, Kreis Rendsburg-Eckernförde at the Baltic Sea near Kiel. The population was about 23,000 in 2023.

All 24 German submarines are stationed in Eckernförde.

Eckernförde is a well-known touristic centre in Northern Germany.




