491


491 was a common year.


402

402 is a common year in the Common Era. It started on a Wednesday. It was known as year 1155 in some places in the Ab urbe condita.


Somerset

Somerset is a county in South West England.

The main town of Somerset was Somerton, but it is now Taunton. There are two cities in Somerset. They are Bath and Wells.

The name "Somerset" comes from the Anglo-Saxon phrase "Sumorsaete," which was used to describe people from Somerton.

In the past, the northern border of Somerset was the River Avon. However, as the city of Bristol has grown, the border moved south.

In 1974 parts of north Somerset, the city of Bristol and parts of south Gloucestershire were joined into a new county. This county was named Avon. In 1996 Avon was split into 4 parts, which are now unitary authorities. People usually say that 2 of these parts (named North Somerset and Bath and North East Somerset) are part of Somerset, even though they have their own councils.

The oldest prison in England which is still used is in a town named Shepton Mallet in Somerset. Somerset also has the world's oldest road which people built. It is called the Sweet Track; it was built in about 3800 BC.

There is not much large industry in Somerset, but Bridgwater is a port, and Yeovil is important in building helicopters.

Tourism is an important industry in the county; in 2001 about 23,000 people worked in tourism. Tourists like Somerset because it is very beautiful, with much countryside and few big towns. Somerset has many places to visit:

Farming is an important industry in Somerset, but not as many people work in this industry today. Somerset is famous for its cider (an alcoholic apple drink) and it has many apple orchards.

The numbers on the map are linked to the numbers below.


This is a list of the main towns and cities in Somerset:

Glastonbury

Glastonbury is a town in Somerset, England. It is well known for being mistakenly thought of where Glastonbury Festival is held, however the festival is in fact held in the village of Pilton, nearly 7 miles to the east.

Glastonbury is also well known because of Glastonbury Abbey. This is because Glastonbury Abbey is said to be the place where King Arthur is buried, and it was burned down when King Henry the Eighth got angry at all Catholic monasteries in the country as the Pope would not grant him a divorce. The abbot, Abbot Whiting, was killed on the Tor, a local landmark.

Glastonbury Abbey

Glastonbury Abbey is in Glastonbury, Somerset, England. It was King Ine of Wessex who decided to build Glastonbury Abbey and out of stone. King Edmund I of England was buried at the Abbey in 946 AD. It is said to be the burial place of King Arthur.

Somerton

Somerton is a town in Somerset. In 2001 there were 4509 people living in Somerton. It is between the towns of Yeovil and Street. It is in the South Somerset District of Somerset. 

Somerton was the capital of the Kingdom of Wessex from 871 to 901. It also used to be Somerset's county town, but this is now Taunton.

Yeovil, Somerset

Yeovil is a town in the county of Somerset. It is in the South Somerset District. Yeovil takes its name from the River Yeo. "Yeo Village" became Yeovil over time.
The town has two railway stations. They are called Yeovil Junction and Yeovil Pen Mill. The town has many villages near by. These are West Coker, East Chinnock, East Coker, Stoford, Evershot, Halstock and Yetminster. 
Yeovil is where the council is based for the district of South Somerset. The town's main employers are GKN Westlands Helicopters.
Yeovil is home to the "giant killer" football club Yeovil Town F.C.. The club played against Liverpool F.C in 2004. Yeovil used to be famous for glove-making. This is why the football team are nicknamed "The Glovers".

Bridgwater

Bridgwater is a town in the county of Somerset. It is in the District of Sedgemoor.

Street

A street is a piece of land, made flat and often with pavement, so that people can travel on it better. "Street" and "road" may mean the same thing, but "street" is more often used only in a town.

Many streets are the center of local culture or of a specialized activity. New Orleans’ Bourbon Street, for example, is famous for its active nightlife and also for its role as the center of the city’s French Quarter. The Bowery in Manhattan was, at different times, a main highway, a center of underground punk culture, and a specialized shopping district for light fixtures.


Taunton

Taunton is a town in the county of Somerset. It is in the Taunton Deane District. Taunton is the county town of Somerset. Taunton is on the River Tone and takes its name from the river. "Tone town" became Taunton.

In 1685, Judge Jefferies was based in Taunton during the Bloody Assizes that followed the Battle of Sedgemoor.

Shepton Mallet

Shepton Mallet is a town in the county of Somerset, England. It is in the Mendip district.

Shepton Mallet is where the council is based for the Mendip district. It is a pleasant place to go, and has a beautiful countryside.

Bath, Somerset

Bath is a city in the county of Somerset in England. It is west of London, and southeast of Bristol.

Bath is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The city has preserved some of its Roman remains and its 18th century architecture.

The city gets its name from the famous Roman baths in the town. The Romans built the baths as part of a spa, in the year 43 BC. They called it "Aquae Sulis", which means "The waters of Sulis". Sulis was a local goddess.

During the Middle Ages, it was an important city for buying and selling wool.

Bath became a city in 1585, when Queen Elizabeth I declared it to be one.

Bath has two universities and several schools and colleges.

Bath is where Roald Dahl's short story "The Landlady" takes place. The city is also mentioned in many of Jane Austen's books, like "Northanger Abbey", "Sense and Sensibility", and "Pride and Prejudice."

Wells, Somerset

Wells is a city in the county of Somerset. It is in the district of Mendip. The only other city in Somerset is the much larger Bath. In 2018 there were 12,000 people living in Wells.

Wells Cathedral is in Wells. The cathedral is very popular with visitors to Wells. The cathedral has a school attached to it. The school specializes in music (as well as normal school subjects). Timothy K. Murray, composer, was a student there.

The city of Wells is named after springs in the grounds of the Bishop's Palace.

It is the second smallest city in the United Kingdom after St Davids in Wales. The area of Somerset was known in past centuries as a stronghold of taxation avoidance and liquor smuggling (from ships wrecked on the coast). In the 18th century the Bishop of Bath and Wells used to travel with half-a-dozen armed soldiers, and no doubt they were needed. The city has been there since Roman times, indeed it was originally a Roman settlement.

East Coker, Somerset

East Coker is a village in Somerset. It is in the South Somerset District. East Coker is near the town of Yeovil. 

St Michael's church contains the ashes of the poet T. S. Eliot. One of his poems is called "East Coker". William Dampier, explorer and buccaneer was born in the village in 1651. He circumnavigated the world four times and published a book about his experiences. Dampier Island and Dampier Straits off Australia are named after him. Along the approach to the church are 12 almshouses built in 1640 by Archdeacon Helyar, chaplain to Queen Elizabeth l.

One of East Coker's famous residents is Trevor Peacock. Trevor Peacock played "Jim" in "The Vicar of Dibley".

Tatworth

Tatworth is a village near Chard in the South Somerset District of Somerset, England. It was settled in 1254, but traces of earlier settlers have been found, such as a Roman villa.

Chard (Somerset)

Chard is a town in Somerset. It is in the South Somerset District. It is near the border of the county of Devon.

Chard is the birthplace of aviation. It was in Chard, during 1848, that John Stringfellow (1799 - 1883), first demonstrated that powered flight was possible.

In 1685, Chard was one of the towns in which Judge Jefferies held some of the Bloody Assizes after the failure of the Monmouth Rebellion. He stayed in "The Choughs", a public house in Chard.

Crewkerne

Crewkerne is a town in Somerset, England where about 6,700 people live. It is in the South Somerset District, near the border with Dorset. 

The first time it is mentioned in history is 899, when king Alfred the Great left the manor to his son . The name "Crewkerne" comes from the Saxon words "Cruce" (cross) and "earne" (cottage), because of the early church there. There was also a mint where coins were made between 978 and 1035. In 1066, the manor belonged to Edith, mistress of Harold Godwinson. After the Norman Conquest, it belonged directly to William the Conqueror. 

 is located on the high ground west of the town. Its' existence dates back as far as the 9th Century.


Stoford, Somerset

Stoford is a village in the county of Somerset, England. It is in the South Somerset District.

River Tone

The River Tone is a river in the county of Somerset. It flows through the town of Taunton and joins the River Parrett.

Taunton takes its name from the River Tone. "Tone town" became Taunton.

River Yeo

The River Yeo is a river in the county of Somerset in the United Kingdom. It flows through the town of Yeovil and joins the River Parrett.

Yeovil takes its name from the River Yeo. "Yeo Village" became "Yeovil" over time.

River Adur

The River Adur is a river in the county of Sussex, in England. It starts from South Downs, southern England and ends in the port town of Shoreham-by-Sea.


River Aire

The River Aire is a river in England. It runs through the counties of North Yorkshire, West Yorkshire and the East Riding of Yorkshire, although most of it is in West Yorkshire.

The river starts in Malham, and from there flows through (in order) Skipton, Keighley, Shipley, Leeds, Castleford, Knottingley and Airmyn.

River Aln

The River Aln is a river in the county of Northumberland. It starts at the hamlet of in the . The river ends at the North Sea at on the east coast of England. The river forms part of the name of the town of . It also forms part of the names of the villages of Alnmouth and . The river served as a war zone between the English and the Scots.

River Alt

The River Alt is a river in the county of Merseyside in England just north of Liverpool. The river begins near Huyton and flows about 28 km northeast to empty into the Irish Sea at the town of Hightown. Other towns along the river include Kirkby, Maghull and Formby. There are 75 km of tributary feeding the river. About 250,000 people live in the area around the river. The northern part of the river forms the boundary between the counties of Merseyside and Lancashire.

River Yare

The River Yare is a river in the county of Norfolk, England.

The river starts south of Dereham in the county of Norfolk. From there it flows to the east of the world. The river flows along the southern edge of the city of Norwich. The river continues past Norwich into the tidal lake of Breydon Water. Here the Yare is joined by the Rivers Bure and Waveney. It empties into North Sea at Gorleston, Great Yarmouth.Google Chrome

Small coastal boats can sail along the river from Norwich to the North Sea. In the past, the river had a large number of boats carrying goods to Norwich. Larger modern boats cannot get across Breydon Water because it is not deep enough. Because of this, a canal was created at Reedham to provides a connection to the River Waveney.

River Exe

The River Exe is a river in the county of Devon in England. It flows south through the city of Exeter. Exe Island was made in the 10th century by draining the marshlands between the city walls and the river. The island had many mills making paper and textiles. The wide estuary of the River Exe is a ria (drowned river valley). The Exeter Ship Canal goes along next to the river from Exeter down to the estuary.

The name of the city of Exeter means "castle on the river Exe".


Ilminster, Somerset

Ilminster is a town in the county of Somerset. It is in the South Somerset District. 

Ilminster is on the River Ile and has a large church. The church is known as the "Minster". It is from both of these things that Ilminster takes its name. "Ile" and "Minster" became "Ilminster".

South Cadbury

South Cadbury is an archaeological site in south Somerset.

It was dug in the early 1970s, and it showed many times that people lived there. The first was in the early Neolithic (around 4000-3000 BC?) when the hill seems to have been an important place for groups of early farmers who moved around. Most things were found from when late Bronze Age people lived on the hill (around 1200 BC). In the Iron Age the site changed, with many big walls. There are signs that when the Romans came to Britain, they killed many people here. Ruins of a feasting hall built after the Roman time were also found in the dig. There are also legends connecting this place with King Arthur.

Watchet

Watchet is a harbor town in the county of Somerset in England. It gets its name either from the blue "wacet" dye found in the cliffs, or from British "gwo coed" or "waeced", "under the wood". 
It is first recorded in the 7th century, when Saint Decuman crossed over from South Wales on a raft with a cow to help the people there. Legend says he was killed there by a violent man who cut off his head. There is a spring of water dedicated to him there. 

Coins were minted here for Ethelred II and five other Saxon kings. They have been found as far away as Scandinavia, probably because they were part of the Danegeld - payments made to the Vikings, who attacked Watchet in 918, 977, 988, and destroyed part of it in 997. Harold Godwinson's mother Eleanor fled through this port in 1066.

Watchet is the only place in England to still have the Court leet system, but only in name, with people chosen for ceremonial jobs like port reeve and ale taster. 


Burnham-on-Sea

Burnham-on-Sea is a small town in the county of Somerset in England on the mouth of the River Parrett at Bridgwater Bay. Burnham was a small fishing village until the late-18th century when it became popular as a seaside resort. This made the village grow larger into a town.

Cheddar cheese

Cheddar is a type of hard cheese made from cow's milk. It originally was produced in the English village of Cheddar, Somerset. Romans may have brought the recipe to Britain from the Cantal region of France. The first record of cheddar cheese dates back to the 12th century. In 1170, King Henry II bought at a farthing per pound. Charles I (1600–1649) also bought cheese from Somerset. Cheddar cheese traditionally had to be made within of Wells Cathedral.

Cheddar cheese is different from other cheeses in how it is made. After the curds are heated, they are cut and stacked. The stacks are then turned periodically and re-stacked. This process is called cheddaring. Cheddar cheese is sometimes aged in caves for up to 30 months before it is ready to eat.

Cheddar cheese is the most popular cheese in the United Kingdom. It accounts for 51 percent of the country's £1.9 billion annual cheese market. It is the second most popular cheese in the United States, behind mozzarella, with an average annual consumption of per person. The United States produced 3,233,380,000 lbs in 2010, and the UK 258,000 tonnes in 2008. The name "cheddar cheese" is widely used and has no protection within the European Union. Only cheddar produced from local milk within four counties of South West England may use the name "West Country Farmhouse Cheddar."

Cheddar cheese may be used to make cheese on toast.

Yatton

Yatton is a large village with 9,000 people in the county of Somerset in England. Archaeology in the area has found a Roman villa (country-house) belonging to some rich person who lived here in the late 3rd century, judging from the coins. Records show the land was part of the manor of John the Dane before the Norman Conquest, and Giso, bishop of Wells afterward. 


Backwell

Backwell is a village in the county of Avon, in North Somerset. 5,455 people live in Backwell. It is 7 miles from Bristol. Nailsea, Flax Bourton, Yatton, Brockley and Barrow Gurney are nearby.

There is a railway station in the village called "Nailsea and Backwell". Bristol International Airport is less than three miles away.

Nailsea

Nailsea is a town and civil parish in Somerset, England. In 2011, there were 15,630 people living in Nailsea.

Clevedon

Clevedon is a town in the county of Somerset, in England. The name comes from Old English and means "divided hill". Archaeology shows that many people lived here during the Roman occupation. Just before the Norman Conquest in 1066 it was part of a huge manor held by John (Gunni?) the Dane. At the time of the Domesday Book (1086) it belonged to Matthew of Mortaigne and had only a few people living there. The town of today was not built until around 1800 as a seaside resort.


Weston-super-Mare

Weston-super-Mare, sometimes known as just Weston is a sea-side town in Somerset, England. Weston is from the city of Bristol. It also includes the suburbs of Oldmixon, West Wick and Worle. The beach is a popular tourist destination. The town has many museums and a pier.

The earliest settlements of Weston are iron age hill forts in the north

By the time of the 19th century, Weston had already become a popular tourist destination
in world war 2, 4,000 people migrated to weston-super-mare

Weston is connected to the M5 motorway by junction 21 where the dual carriageway A370 goes to the town centre.

The main railway station is on a short loop off the Bristol to Exeter line. The station is called Westo-super-Mare. It is close to the town centre and less than ten minutes walk from the sea front.

South Somerset

South Somerset is a district in the county of Somerset. Its council is based in the town of Yeovil. The district was formed on 1 April 1974 and was originally called Yeovil.

Scone

A scone is a kind of bread that is baked on a griddle or sheet. Scones are very small, and are in the same group as the crumpet or muffin. It is made of wheat, barley, or oatmeal and baking powder to make it rise. The scone is shaped closely like the North American biscuit, and its recipe is almost the same with it as well. Sometimes scones may have raisins, currants, cheese, or dates in them. In the United States, however, scones include more sweet kind of fillings like cranberries, chocolate chips, or nuts. They can often be found in coffee shops and in a great variety in the British Isles. It is generally thought that scones are best eaten when they are very hot and freshly baked right from the oven, accompanied with melting warm butter.

Some think that scone comes from the Gaelic "sgonn", which meant a piece of dough that has been cooked for a couple of minutes, shapeless mass or large mouthful; and the Dutch "schoonbrot", which meant "fine white bread"; or, for last, the German "sconbrot", which meant "fine or beautiful bread". The Oxford English Dictionary believes the German and Dutch is more accurate.

It is sometimes debated on the correct pronunciation for "scone". In Scotland and North England, the word is pronounced as "skawn", or "skahn", while in Southern England, it is pronounced as "skoan" or "skown". The latter pronunciation came from the United States and Canada.

Meanwhile, Cambridge Dictionary presents both options as acceptable.

Scones are connected traditionally with England, Scotland, and Ireland, but nobody knows which country invented it. However, the first known mention of a scone that was printed is from the translation of "The Aenaid" (1513) written by a Scottish poet named Gavin Douglas.

Scones are related to the ancient Welsh tradition of cooking small round yeast cakes on stones, that later changed to griddles. First-made scones included oats inside them, and were baked over an open fire. However, today's scones are more like American biscuits. They are made with wheat, and baked in the oven.

The most popular scones are soda scones, wholemeal scones, rich white scones, treacle scones, potato scones, ballater scones and drop scones. Scones usually take about four to ten minutes to bake.

Ankara

Ankara is the capital city of the country of Turkey. It is in the center of Anatolia. Ankara is the second largest city after Istanbul. The city has a population of 4,319,167 (2005) (Province 5,153,000), and an elevation of 938 meters (3080 feet). It was formerly known as Engürü the city is also the capital of Ankara Province

Ankara is a very modern city. Ankara was made the capital of Turkey in 1923. Ankara is known for its performing arts, home to the State Opera and Ballet, the Presidential Symphony Orchestra and several national theater companies. In Ankara there's a place called Anitkabir, which is a big hilltop mausoleum that was built to celebrate Kemal Atatürk who was the first president.

Ankara is a city that has a lot of history. Ankara was invaded many times. In 546 BCE, Achaemenid Persians was in control of Ankara (approximated date). Ankara was then invaded by the Romans in 25 BCE. At the time, Ankara was controlled by Augustus. Ankara castle was captured by the Crusaders in 1101. Ankara castle was captured again by the Seljuks in 1227. Ankara was controlled again by the Ottomans in 1403. On October 13, 1923 Ankara became the capital of Turkey.

Johannes Gutenberg

Johannes Gensfleisch zur Laden zum Gutenberg (more commonly known as Johannes Gutenberg) (1390s – 3 February 1468), was a German metal-worker and inventor. He is famous for his work in printing in the 1450s, and is specifically known for inventing typography.

Gutenberg was born in Mainz, Germany, as the son of a merchant, Friele Gensfleisch zur Laden. Gutenberg's father took the surname "zum Gutenberg" after the name of the place they now lived.

Gutenberg invented a sort of metal alloy for printing; inks; a way to fix type (metal letters) very accurately; and a new sort of printing press. He took the idea for his printing press from the presses wine-makers used. Many people say Gutenberg invented printing with moveable type, but it was already invented in China before that: see printing.

Before movable type, people used block printing, where the printer prints a whole page from one piece of metal or wood. With movable type, the printer makes a letter (A, B, C ...) from a piece of metal or wood, and can use it again and again in different words. Together, all Gutenberg's inventions made printing fast. In Renaissance Europe, the improved information technology made an information explosion – in a short time, people printed many new books about many topics.
The high number of new books was partly because of the popular Bible Gutenberg printed – the Gutenberg Bible. This was the first Bible people made in large numbers; Gutenberg started on 23 February 1455. Gutenberg was not a clever businessman, and did not get much money from his system. He had legal problems, and lost his machines to his partner, Johann Fust. The Archbishop at the time sympathized with Gutenberg because of his contributions to society, so told him that he would receive a pension each year with clothes, wine, and grain. Gutenberg died in Mainz, Germany, in 1468.

In his lifetime Gutenberg was not successful, but his invention was very important. In a short time, news and books were traveling around Europe very fast. Scientists could communicate better, which helped bring the scientific revolution and new technology. More Europeans, not just priests, scribes and scholars, learned to read.

Today, there are still 60 Gutenberg Bibles. They are most likely the oldest books that printers made with moveable type.

The "Gutenberg Galaxy" and Project Gutenberg use Gutenberg's name. The city of Guttenberg, Iowa in the United States is named after him.

Elizabeth I

Elizabeth I (7 September 1533 – 24 March 1603) was the Queen of England and Ireland. She was Queen from 17 November 1558 until she died in March 1603. She was also called Good Queen Bess or the Virgin Queen or Gloriana.

She was the daughter of King Henry VIII of England and Anne Boleyn, his second wife, and was the last of the Tudor dynasty of monarchs. When Boleyn was disgraced at court and executed, Elizabeth's life became a troubled one, including being locked up in the Tower of London, an old prison, suspected of helping Queen Mary's enemies.

Despite that, Elizabeth reigned with intelligence and hard work. Her reign was distinguished with great achievements in the arts, trade, and exploration. She ably defended her country through the days of the Spanish Armada. She never married, but claimed that she was married to England. She also had a few other favourites, including the Earl of Leicester. At her death in 1603, King James VI of Scotland was named her successor.

Elizabeth was born in 1533 at Greenwich, England. She was the daughter of King Henry VIII of England and his second wife, Anne Boleyn. She had an older half-sister Mary, and, later, a younger half-brother Edward.

Elizabeth was given a good education. She could speak and read six languages: her native English, as well as French, Italian, Spanish, Greek, and Latin.

When she was thirteen and a half years old, on 28 January 1547, King Henry died. Elizabeth's half-brother, Edward, became King Edward VI of England. He died age 15. Mary succeeded him in 1553, and after Queen Mary's death in 1558, Elizabeth became Queen.

Mary I had brought back the Roman Catholic religion in England. Elizabeth returned the nation to the Church of England of her father. She did however retain some of the Catholic traditions. She wanted her subjects to make it look like they were being Protestant even if they were not.

The years of Elizabeth's reign had many artistic achievements. William Shakespeare, Christopher Marlowe, Edmund Spenser, and other writers created enduring drama and poetry. Composers Thomas Tallis and William Byrd worked at Elizabeth's court.

During her reign, many men sought adventure abroad. Elizabeth rented a slave ship to John Hawkins and gave him weapons and equipment to keep slave trading. Sir Francis Drake, Sir Walter Raleigh, Humphrey Gilbert, and other "sea dogs" looted Spanish ships. They also sailed to the Americas. In 1580, Drake became the first Englishman to sail around the world. The expeditions of these men prepared England to join the age of discovery and international trade and owning other parts of the world. In 1600, Elizabeth herself founded a trading company known as the East India Company that became an important tool of the British Empire.

England and Spain had long quarrelled. Elizabeth encouraged Protestants in the Spanish-held Netherlands to rebel against Spain. She also encouraged her "sea dogs" to raid Spanish ships. In 1588, King Philip II of Spain sent an armada (a large fleet of ships) to invade England.

Elizabeth met her troops at Tilbury telling them: "I know I have the body of a weak, feeble woman; but I have the heart and stomach of a king – and of a King of England too".

The Spanish Armada was met by England's smaller ships on 29 July 1588. They defeated the Armada. The Armada was driven by southwest winds to the north. The English fleet harried it up the east coast of England. The Armada returned to Spain round the north of Scotland and south around Ireland. Bad weather near Scotland and Ireland wrecked some of the ships. More than a third of the ships failed to return to Spain.

Elizabeth never married, and she had no children. However, she was fond of several noblemen in her court. Prominent among these noblemen was Robert Dudley, 1st Earl of Leicester. Later, she turned to Robert Devereux, 2nd Earl of Essex. He wanted to overthrow the government of the Queen. He was defeated and executed.

Elizabeth died at Richmond Palace on 24 March 1603. The Protestant King of Scotland James VI became King of England. He was the son of her cousin Mary, Queen of Scots.

Elizabeth I was the last Tudor monarch, and reigned for 44 years. Her accession date was a national holiday for two hundred years.



