Q


Q is the seventeenth (number 17) letter in the English alphabet. It is always followed by a silent letter U. Q makes a "kw" sound as in quick or a "k" sound as in unique.

Some people say that the letter Q is not needed, because the sound it makes can be made with K or C and W instead. The same thing is said about the letter X.

Below are some ancient ways of writing Q:

R

R is the eighteenth (number 18) letter in the English alphabet.


S

S is the nineteenth (number 19) letter in the English alphabet.


T

T is the twentieth (number 20) letter in the English alphabet.


U

U (u) is the twenty-first (21) letter in the English alphabet.


V

V is the twenty-second (number 22) letter in the English alphabet.


W

W is the twenty-third (number 23) letter in the Latin alphabet. It is pronounced as "double-(you/yoo)" or "double-vee". It is the only letter with three syllables.

In words like "away", "what", "write" and "women", the W is a consonant. In words like "draw", "few", "low" and "cwm", the W is a vowel.


X

X is the twenty-fourth (number 24) letter in the English alphabet. It sometimes makes a sound like "ks" (for example: "exit", "next", "fox"), or if it is at the beginning of a word, it makes a sound like "zzz" (for example: "xylophone"). The language of origin is from the Greek and Latin language


Y

Y, or Ÿ, is the twenty-fifth (number 25) letter in the English alphabet. Its name in English is "wy" (pronounced ).

In words like "year", "yell", and "yes", the Y is a consonant. In words like "cry", "fly", and "sky", the Y is considered a vowel.

"Y" has appeared as the Semitic letter "waw". This was the first time it appeared in an alphabet. F, U, V, and W also come from the Semitic alphabet. The Greek and Latin alphabets used the Phoenician form of this early alphabet. There are similarities to the old English letter yogh (Ȝȝ). The table shows where the letter "y" came from.


Z

Z is the twenty-sixth (number 26) and last letter in the English alphabet. The small letter, z, is used as a lowercase consonant. Z is not used much. It is the most rarely used letter in the English language. The same letter of the Greek alphabet is named zeta.

The letter is said as zed . The first way of saying it comes from the Greek "zeta". Even in American English, Z is given the nickname "ze" , because it comes from a late 17th century English speech.

The name of the Semitic symbol was "zayin" and was the seventh letter. It might have meant "weapon". It could have helped form English and French's "z".

The Greek form of Z was a close copy of the Phoenician symbol I. It stayed like this for a long time. The Greeks called it zeta, a new name made from the Greek letters "eta" (η) and "theta" (θ).

In Etruscan, "Z" may have been .

In Old Latin, (written "s") became and the symbol for became useless. It was taken away from the alphabet by Appius Claudius Caecus, and a new letter, "G", was put in.

In the 1st century BC, "Z" was put in the alphabet again at the end of the Latin alphabet. This was done to accurately represent the sound of the Greek zeta. The letter "Z" appeared only in Greek words, and is the only letter besides "Y" that the Romans took from Greek.


Fuck

Fuck is a common English language swear word. It can be used to either mean the act of sex or as an expression. However, the word "fucking" is used as an intensifier before a word (e.g. I "fucking hate this game").

It is commonly used to express anger and frustration (e.g. when something is not going in favour of someone)


Virus

A virus is a tiny parasite. Virology is the study of viruses.

Viruses can only be seen under an electron microscope. Viruses are not free-living: they can only be parasites. They always reproduce inside other living things. All viruses infect living organisms, and may cause disease. The virus make copies of itself inside another organism's cells. Viruses are a strand of nucleic acid with a protein coat. Usually the nucleic acid is RNA; sometimes it is DNA. Viruses cause many types of diseases, such as polio, ebola and hepatitis. 

Viruses reproduce by getting their nucleic acid strand into a prokaryote or eukaryote cell. The RNA or DNA strand then takes over the cell machinery to reproduce copies of itself and the protein coat. The cell then bursts open, spreading the newly created viruses. All viruses reproduce this way, and there are no free-living viruses. Viruses are everywhere in the environment, and all organisms can be infected by them.

Most viruses are much smaller than bacteria. They were not visible until the invention of the electron microscope. A virus has a simple structure. It has just a protein coat which covers a string of nucleic acid. Viruses live and reproduce inside the cells of other living organisms.

With eukaryotic cells, the virus protein coat is able to enter the target cells by certain cell membrane receptors. With prokaryote bacteria cells, the bacteriophage physically injects the nucleic acid strand into the host cell.

Viruses have the following characteristics:

When the host cell has finished making more viruses, it undergoes lysis, or breaks apart. The viruses are released and are then able to infect other cells. Viruses can remain "silent" (inactive) for a long time, and will infect cells when the time and conditions are right.

Some special viruses are worth noting. Bacteriophages have evolved to enter bacterial cells, which have a different type of cell wall from eukaryote cell membranes. "Envelope viruses", when they reproduce, cover themselves with a modified form of the host cell membrane, thus gaining an outer lipid layer that helps entry. Some of our most difficult-to-combat viruses, like influenza and HIV, use this method.

Viral infections in animals trigger an immune response which usually kills the infecting virus. Vaccines can also produce immune responses. They give an artificially acquired immunity to the specific viral infection. However, some viruses (including those causing AIDS and viral hepatitis) escape from these immune responses and cause chronic infections. Antibiotics have no effect on viruses, but there are some other drugs which can be used against viruses.

There are many genomic structures in viruses. As a group they are more diverse than plants, animals, archaea, or bacteria. There are millions of different types of viruses, but only about 7,000 of them have been described in detail.

A virus has either RNA or DNA genes and so is called an RNA virus or a DNA virus. "The vast majority of viruses have RNA genomes". Plant viruses usually have single-stranded RNA genomes and bacteriophages usually have double-stranded DNA genomes.

Fewer than 7,000 types have been described in detail. but there are doubtlessly many more to be discovered.

Viral populations do not grow through cell division, because they do not have cells. Instead, they use the machinery and metabolism of a host cell to produce many copies of themselves, and they "assemble" (put together) in the cell.

The life cycle of viruses differs greatly between species but there are six "basic" stages in the life cycle of viruses:


The genetic material within virus particles, and the method by which the material is replicated, varies considerably between different types of viruses.



