Alyson Hannigan


Alyson Lee Hannigan is an American actress. She was born March 24, 1974 in Washington, D.C. She moved to Atlanta, Georgia when she was 2 years old to live with her mother. She started to act in commercials for McDonalds, Six Flags amusement parks and Oreo cookies when she was small. When she was 11, she went to Los Angeles with her mother to go to school and become famous. She started getting noticed with her roles in "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" as Willow Rosenberg and in the "American Pie" movies as Michelle Flaherty. She is currently on the television series "How I Met Your Mother".


Jessica Alba

Jessica Marie Alba (born April 28, 1981) is a businesswoman, American television and movie actress, and model. She started her business, The Honest Company, in 2011. Alba made her first movie, "Camp Nowhere", at age 13 and in the television drama series "Dark Angel" (2000–2002). Alba later acted in several movies, such as "Honey" (2003), "Sin City" (2005) and "Good Luck Chuck" (2007). Alba has won several awards for her acting. These awards include the "Choice Actress" award at the Teen Choice Award and a Saturn Award. Both of these awards were for her acting in the series "Dark Angel".

She has been listed in the "Hot 100" section of "Maxim" magazine every year from 2003 to 2007, and she was voted "Sexiest Woman in the World" by "FHM" in 2007. In March 2007, a picture of her was used on the cover of "Playboy". "Playboy" did not ask her if they could use the picture or tell her they were going to use it. This caused a lawsuit that was later dropped.

Alba was born in Pomona, California. Her mother, Catherine, is of Danish, Irish, Scottish, Welsh, English, German and French Canadian ancestry and her father, Mark, is Mexican American, and is of Indigenous Mexican, Sephardic Jewish, Spanish and Mayan ancestry. She has a younger brother named Joshua. Alba's father was in the Air Force and his career caused them to live in many different places. They lived in Biloxi, Mississippi and Del Rio, Texas before returning to California at age 9. When she was young, Alba was ill many times. She had a collapsed lung twice, had pneumonia four or five times each year and had problems with her appendix and tonsils. She was in hospitals for much of her childhood. This meant Alba did not spend much time with other children. Alba has also said that she had obsessive-compulsive disorder when she was a child. The disorder affected her much less when her family moved to California. She graduated from high school when she was 16 years old. After high school, she went to the Atlantic Theater Company.

Alba wanted to act since she was five. She took her first acting class at age twelve. An acting agent signed her nine months later. Her first movie work was a small role in the 1994 movie "Camp Nowhere". At first, she was only hired for two weeks but ended up working for two months because another actress dropped out.

Alba starred in two national television commercials when she was a child. One of these was for Nintendo and the other was for J.C. Penney. She played Jessica in three episodes of the Nickelodeon comedy series "The Secret World of Alex Mack". Alba was then Maya in the television series "Flipper". Her mother was a lifeguard and had taught Jessica to swim before she could walk. She is a certified scuba diver.

In 1998, she acted in "Brooklyn South", in two episodes of "Beverly Hills, 90210" and in an episode of "The Love Boat: The Next Wave". After Alba graduated from high school, she studied acting with William H. Macy and his wife, Felicity Huffman, at the Atlantic Theater Company.

She became more famous in Hollywood in 1999 after acting in the Drew Barrymore romantic comedy "Never Been Kissed", and as the main female character in the 1999 comedy-horror movie "Idle Hands". She was chosen from a group of 1,200 actresses for the role of the genetically engineered soldier, on the FOX sci-fi television series "Dark Angel". The series ran for two seasons from 2000 until 2002. Alba was nominated for a Golden Globe for her work on that series. When she trained to be in "Dark Angel", Alba had to exercise very much and she starved herself. She said "A lot of girls have eating disorders and I did too. I got obsessed with it." She also had obsessive compulsive disorder and panic attacks. She said she has been cooking for herself since the age of twelve so she would not become as fat as her family members.

Some of Alba's most famous movie roles are a dancer in "Sin City" and as Marvel Comics character Sue Storm, the Invisible Woman in the "Fantastic Four". She also acted in "Into the Blue" in 2005 and "Good Luck Chuck" a few years later. In 2008, Alba played her first horror-movie role in "The Eye", a remake of the Hong Kong original. In February, she hosted an Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences's ceremony. Later in the year, she starred in "The Love Guru".

In 2010, Alba appeared in five movies including "Little Fockers" and "The Killer Inside Me". The following year she appeared in "Spy Kids 4", a sequel to "Spy Kids".

In 2007, "Maxim Magazine" listed Alba as number 2 in their "Top 100", after Lindsay Lohan. "GQ" had her picture on their June covers. In May, after eight million votes, "FHM" (UK and US editions) named Alba the winner as "2007’s Sexiest Woman in the World". She received the Teen Choice Award for "Choice Actress" and Saturn Award for Best Actress (TV) for her role in "Dark Angel", along with a Golden Globe nomination. In 2006, she received an MTV Movie Award for "Sexiest Performance" for "Sin City".

Some people have said Alba's acting was bad. She was nominated for a 2007 Razzie Award for Worst Actress for her work in "Awake", "Good Luck Chuck", and "".

On the cover of the March 2006 issue, "Playboy" magazine named Alba among its 25 Sexiest Celebrities and the "Sex Star of the Year". She took "Playboy" to court for using a picture of her without her permission. However, she later dropped the lawsuit when she got a personal apology from "Playboy" owner Hugh Hefner. He agreed to make donations to two charities that Alba supports.

Alba was raised in the Roman Catholic religion. When she was a teenager she became a born-again Christian. However, she left the church after four years because she believed that she was being judged by the way she looked. She has said that she still believes in God even though she is not a member of the church. Alba has not performed naked. She was given the option to appear nude in "Sin City" by the movie's directors, Frank Miller and Robert Rodriguez. She said no to the offer saying, "I don't do nudity. I just don't. Maybe that makes me a bad actress. Maybe I won't get hired in some things. But I have too much anxiety".

While filming "Dark Angel", Alba began a romance with another member of the cast, Michael Weatherly. This caused controversy because he was 12 years older than she was. He asked her to marry him on her twentieth birthday but she said no. They eventually broke up after a four-year relationship. When talking about children, she said, "I'm really girly when it comes to kids. I've been surrounded by children my whole life because I'm the oldest of 15 cousins - I've been changing (nappies) since I was six... I want to have a couple, for sure.". Alba is a Democrat and attended the 2012 Democratic National Convention in support of President Obama's re-election.

Alba married Cash Warren on May 19, 2008 in Los Angeles, California. She met him while making "Fantastic Four" in 2004. On June 7, 2008, Alba gave birth to a baby girl called Honor Marie Warren. She also does some charity work, including clothes charity "Clothes Off Our Back" and women's charity "Step Up Women's Network". On August 13, 2011, she gave birth to her second daughter, Haven Garner Warren.


Brad Pitt

William Bradley "Brad" Pitt (born December 18, 1963) is an Academy Award-winning American Celebrity and Movie producer.

William Bradley Pitt was born in Shawnee, Oklahoma, to Jane Etta (née Hillhouse), a school counsellor, and William Alvin Pitt, who ran a trucking company. The family soon moved to Springfield, Missouri, where he lived together with his younger siblings, Douglas Mitchell Pitt (born 1966) and Julie Neal (born 1969). He was born into a conservative household. He was raised as Southern Baptist. Pitt has described Springfield as "Mark Twain country, Jesse James country", having grown up with "a lot of hills, a lot of lakes".

Pitt's television debut came in May 1987 with a two-episode role on the NBC soap opera "Another World". In 1995 Pitt won two MTV Movie Awards for his role in "Interview with the Vampire". He played Tyler Durden in "Fight Club". Pitt produced the 2013 movie "12 Years a Slave". He also played a small role in the movie. 

He starred in two Quentin Tarantino movies: "Inglourious Basterds" and "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood".

In 2020, he won an Academy Award, a Golden Globe Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award for his role in "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood".

Brad Pitt Production Company released Thalapathy Vijay's "Leo" film official trailer in North America theatres and the release date is on 18 October 2023.


Jennifer Aniston

Jennifer Joanna Aniston (born February 11, 1969) is an American actor, movie producer, and television producer. She is best known for her starring role on the television program "Friends". For this she won an Emmy Award, and a Golden Globe Award. Since then she has been in many different movies.

Jennifer Aniston was born on February 11, 1969, in Sherman Oaks, Los Angeles, California. She is the daughter of John Aniston and Nancy Dow. Her father is Greek and a native of Crete, while her mother was born in New York City. Dow died of a stroke in May 2016. One of her maternal great-grandfathers was an Italian immigrant, and her mother's other ancestry is Scottish, Irish, and a small amount of Greek. Aniston has two half-brothers, John Melick, her maternal older half-brother, and Alex Aniston, her younger paternal half-brother. Aniston's godfather was actor Telly Savalas, one of her father's best friends.

She was married to Brad Pitt from 2000 until they divorced in 2005. They acted together in the episode "The One with the Rumor" on "Friends". She began a relationship with Justin Theroux in 2011. The couple married in 2015 in Bel Air, Los Angeles.

On February 15, 2018, Aniston and Theroux announced that they were separating after two years of marriage and seven years as a couple.


Jennifer Love Hewitt

Jennifer Love Hewitt (born February 21, 1979) is an American actress and singer. She is most known for playing "Sarah Reeves" in the Fox television series "Party of Five" from (1995-1999), and as "Julie James" in the "I Know What You Did Last Summer" movies. She also played "Melinda Gordon" on the CBS television series "Ghost Whisperer".

Hewitt was born in Waco, Texas. Her father is Herbert Daniel Hewitt. Her mother was Patricia Mae (née Shipp, died 2012). She moved to Garland, Texas in 1987. Hewitt grew up in Killeen, Texas. After the divorce of her parents, Hewitt and her only sibling, Todd Hewitt, grew up with her mother.

As a young girl, Hewitt liked music. At the age of three, she sang "The Greatest Love of All" at a livestock show. By the time she was five, Hewitt did tap dancing and ballet. At the age of ten she moved to Los Angeles, California, with her mother for a career in both acting and singing.

After moving to Los Angeles, Hewitt was in more than twenty television commercials. She was a child actor on the Disney Channel variety show "Kids Incorporated" (1989–1991). Hewitt became a young star after getting the role of 'Sarah Reeves' on the Fox Television show "Party of Five" (1995–1999). She joined the cast during its second season.

Hewitt's first movie role was in the independent movie "Munchie" (1992). Hewitt became very well known after a lead role in the horror movie "I Know What You Did Last Summer" (1997). She also played in the sequel "I Still Know What You Did Last Summer" (1998). Other movie roles included the high school comedy "Can't Hardly Wait" (1998) and the romantic comedy "Heartbreakers" (2001). In 2002, she worked with Jackie Chan in the action comedy "The Tuxedo".

She has released four albums with some success, mostly in Europe and Japan. Her first album was released in Japan, where she is widely known.

Hewitt married actor Brian Hallisay in 2013. The couple's daughter named Autumn James Hallisay, born on November 26, 2013. Their son named Atticus James Hallisay, born on June 24, 2015, Their second son named Aidan James Hallisay, born on September 2021.


Katie Holmes

Katherine Noelle "Katie" Holmes (born December 18, 1978) is an American actress. She was born in Toledo, Ohio. She was "Joey" on the WB network TV show Dawson's Creek. Her mother's name is Katherine Ann Holmes

Katie Holmes dated her "Dawson's Creek" co-star Joshua Jackson early in the show's run. Katie Holmes met actor Chris Klein in 2000. Klein and Holmes were engaged in late 2003. In early 2005 she and Klein ended their relationship.

Weeks after her relationship with Chris Klein ended, Katie Holmes began dating actor Tom Cruise. She and Cruise married on November 18, 2006. On April 18, 2006 their daughter named Suri was born.

In June 2012, Katie Holmes filed for divorce. This was the first divorce for Katie Holmes and the third for Cruise.

In early March 2011, Katie Holmes filed a $50 million libel lawsuit against the "Star". They had a cover story which made it seem that she took drugs. The suit was settled on April 27, 2011. The "Star" wrote a public apology in the May 6, 2011 issue. They also made a "substantial" donation to Katie's charity Dizzy Feet Foundation.

In June 2011, Katie Holmes received the Women in Film Max Mara Face of the Future Award.

Sigourney Weaver

Sigourney Weaver (born as "Susan Alexandra Weaver" on October 8, 1949, in New York) is an American actress.

Sigourney Weaver played the role of Lieutenant Ellen Ripley in the movie series "Alien", in the four movies "Alien", "Aliens", "Alien³", and "". She is also well known for playing Dana Barrett in the movies "Ghostbusters" and "Ghostbusters II" or for the role Dian Fossey in the movie "".

She was the first person to win two Golden Globe acting awards in the same year.

Audrey Hepburn

Audrey Hepburn (4 May 1929 – 20 January 1993) was a Belgian-born British actress admired for her charm and elegance.

Born in Brussels, Belgium, to an English father and a Dutch mother who were divorced in 1935. She grew up in Arnhem municipality in the Netherlands during the war, with her mother and two maternal half-brothers. When World War II ended, she and her mother moved to England. There, she studied ballet, and began working as a model and appearing in bit parts in the theatre and in movies. 

Hepburn played her first major role in 1951, when she was chosen by French writer Colette to play the lead role in the English version of her play "Gigi" on Broadway. 

This led to her being cast in the lead female part in the movie "Roman Holiday" (1953), opposite Gregory Peck. The movie made her an instant international star. Her performance won her the Academy Award, the Golden Globe Award and the BAFTA for best actress. She then appeared in a string of successful romantic comedies, such as "Sabrina" (1954), "Love in the Afternoon" (1957), "Breakfast at Tiffany's" (1961), "Charade" (1963), "How to Steal a Million" (1967), etc. She also appeared in two musicals; "Funny Face" (1957) and "My Fair Lady" (1964) and tackled more dramatic roles in movies such as "War and Peace" (1956), "The Nun's Story" (1959), "The Children's Hour" (1961), "Two for the Road" (1967) and the thriller "Wait Until Dark" (1967). 

After an eight years absence from the screen to take care of her family, she returned with "Robin and Marian" (1976), opposite Sean Connery. She also appeared in "Bloodline" (1979) and "They All Laughed" (1981) but retired for good shortly after.

In later life, she worked as a Goodwill Ambassador for UNICEF and hosted a television series "The Gardens of the World with Audrey Hepburn". 

She was married twice; first to actor/director Mel Ferrer in 1954, with whom she had a son Sean (b. 1960), and second to Italian psychiatrist Doctor Andrea Dotti in 1969, with whom she had a second son Luca (b. 1970). Both marriages ended in divorce.

Hepburn died of appendix cancer in January 1993. Her elder son, Sean Ferrer, later wrote a book about his mother, called "Audrey Hepburn: an elegant spirit". The asteroid 4238 Audrey is named after her.


Katharine Hepburn

Katharine Houghton Hepburn (May 12, 1907 – June 29, 2003) was an American actress. Her career lasted 66 years. She is thought of as one of the top screen actresses in movie history. She was nominated for 12 Academy Awards, winning four.

Hepburn was born in Hartford, Connecticut and went to Bryn Mawr College. She got her degree in 1928 and started on Broadway that same year.

In 1932 she got a role in the George Cukor movie "A Bill of Divorcement", with John Barrymore. She was very successful in the early 1930s, but then she became unpopular. She became popular again with the movie "The Philadelphia Story". In 1942 she starred in "Woman of the Year" with Spencer Tracy. They made eight more movies together, including "Adam's Rib" and "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner". They also had an off-screen romance that lasted until Tracy's death in 1967, but they never married because Tracy did not want to divorce his wife. Before this, Hepburn was married to Ludlow Ogden Smith from 1928 to 1934, and also had relationships with Leland Hayward and Howard Hughes.

Her autobiography, "Me: Stories of My Life", came out in 1991. She died on June 29, 2003 at 2:50 p.m., at Fenwick, the Hepburn family home, in Old Saybrook, Connecticut. She was 96.


Charles Kay Ogden

Charles Kay Ogden (1 June 1889 – 21 March 1957) was an English linguist, philosopher, psycholinguist and writer. He is a well-known book writer about the controlled language called BASIC English, which he created himself. He is known for his work with I. A. Richards on "The Meaning of Meaning" (1923). He also translated "Tractatus", a book by Ludwig Wittgenstein, into English.



