Marathon


A marathon is a long-distance running sport event where an athlete must run 42.195 kilometres (26 miles and 385 yards). There are many marathons held all over the world each year. It is a very difficult event and runners are advised to run many miles before they compete. This event was named after a battle of the Greco-Persian wars. 

The famous battle of Marathon was fought in 490 B.C. An army from Persia came to fight the army of Athens. The army from Athens was not expected to win, but they did. After the victory, they sent their best runner, a man named Pheidippides back to Athens to tell everyone the good news. He ran about 25 miles and died of exhaustion when he arrived.

In 1896 the first modern Olympics was held. There was a race called the Marathon there. It was only about 25 miles (40 km) then.

Holy Roman Empire

The Holy Roman Empire (; ), occasionally but unofficially referred to as the Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation, was a polity in Western and Central Europe under the rule of an Emperor, who was elected by the princes and the magistrates of its regions and cities.
On 25 December 800, Pope Leo III crowned Frankish king Charlemagne as Roman emperor and revived the title in Western Europe for the first time since the fall of the ancient Western Roman Empire in 476.

When Charlemagne died in 814, his Frankish Empire was given to his sons and divided into three different countries: West Francia, Lotharingia and East Francia. In 962, Otto I was crowned Emperor by Pope John XII. The empire would live on for over eight centuries until it ended in 1806.

At the outset of the empire, the Emperor was considerably powerful. As time went on, however, the empire's duchies and counties became more powerful. 

Since Charlemagne, the polity was simply called the "Roman Empire". The name "Holy Roman Empire" was not used until the 13th century. Before then, people called the empire by different names like "universum regnum" ("the whole kingdom", meaning that it included all regions, not just local kingdoms) and "imperium christianum" ("Christian empire"). The Emperor's right to rule came from the idea of "translatio imperii" ("transfer of rule"). That meant that he had the highest power, which had been passed down from the Ancient Roman emperors.

The Holy Roman Empire was not the highly-centralized state that most countries are today. Instead, it was divided into dozens and eventually hundreds of individual entities, which were governed by kings, dukes, counts, bishops, abbots, and other rulers. They were collectively known as princes. The Emperor directly ruled some areas, but could not simply issue decrees and govern autonomously over the empire. His power was severely restricted by the various local leaders.

In the 16th century, the empire had to deal with the rebellion of the Frisians, which was led by Pier Gerlofs Donia and Wijerd Jelckama, from 1515 until 1523.

The empire was a rare state in Europe to have an elective monarchy. That meant that the Emperor was chosen by a small group of prince-electors. The previous Emperor's dynastic heir was commonly elected to the throne. The House of Habsburg ruled for most of the period from about 1280 to the empire's fall.

Notes

Friesland

Friesland (Fryslân in West Frisian, Friesland in Dutch) is a province in the north of the Netherlands. The capital (city) of Friesland is Leeuwarden ("Ljouwert" in Frisian). People in Friesland speak West Frisian and Dutch. People also speak Frisian in a small part of Groningen (province), and in East Friesland and North Friesland in Germany. In North Holland there is a region called West Friesland, but people who live there are not called Frisians. About 660,000 people are living in Friesland (2023).

Agriculture and tourism, on the lakes and the isles in the Wadden Sea, are important sources of income.

The province is also famous for its ice skaters and its Elfstedentocht (Eleven cities tour), an ice skating race of 200 kilometers.

It is also known for being home to some breeds of animals, such as the Stabyhoun and Wetterhoun dog breeds, the Friesian horse breed and the Holstein Friesian cattle breed.

In Friesland the Frisians live. They are an old ethnic group. Members of this ethnic group are: 

In 2021, Friesland had a population of 651,459 and a population density of .

The years 1880–1900 showed slower population growth due to a farm crisis during which some 20,000 Frisians emigrated to the United States.

Since the late Middle Ages, Friesland is known for the exceptional height of its inhabitants. Even early Renaissance poet Dante Alighieri refers to the height of Frisians in his "Divine Comedy" when, in the canticle about Hell, he talks about the magnitude of an infernal demon by stating that "not even three tall Frieslanders, were they set one upon the other, would have matched his height".

Groningen (province)

Groningen is a province in the Northeast of the Netherlands. At the east is the German region Lower Saxony, in the south is Drenthe, in the west is Friesland (or Fryslân in Frisian) and in the north is the Wadden Sea. About 596,000 people are living in Groningen (2023).

The capital of Groningen is also called Groningen. People from Groningen often call Groningen City "stad" ("city") and the rest of the province "Ommelanden" (which means something like "surrounding lands"). 

Important sources of income are agriculture and natural gas extraction Slochteren. 

Noticeable things in Groningen are the Gronings dialect, which is related to Low Saxon, and the strong support for the communist party in the Northeastern part of the province.


Groningen (disambiguation)

Groningen might mean:

Burgundy

Burgundy () is a former administrative region of France. It is now part of the administrative region of Bourgogne-Franche-Comté. It was also a historic region in eastern France. The French adjective and name of the inhabitants of the region is "Bourguignon".

With over , it is one of the largest region of France. It covers about 6% of the territory of the country.

The four departments in the region were Côte-d'Or, Nièvre, Saône-et-Loire and Yonne. Its capital was Dijon.

Burgundy was named for the Germanic Burgundian tribe who moved there from an island in the Baltic Sea. They moved when the Roman Empire fell apart to set up a kingdom with its own laws. This included part of what is now Switzerland.

During the Middle Ages, Burgundy was ruled by dukes. In the 15th century it was very powerful. The dukes ruled lands as far north as the Netherlands. After Duke Charles the Bold died when he wanted to conquer the city of Nancy in 1477, France took southern Burgundy. It was a province until 1790. The House of Habsburg got the northern part, which later became the Southern Netherlands.

The Burgundy region is one of the largest regions of Metropolitan France. It has an area of . It bordered with five other regions: Champagne-Ardenne to the north, Franche-Comté to the east, Rhône-Alpes to the southeast, Auvergne to the southwest, Centre-Val de Loire to the west and Île-de-France to the north.

Most of the territory of Burgundy is occupied by a plateau of low hills (the Burgundy Hills) surrounded by valleys of the main rivers. The valley of the Yonne river and its tributaries is to the north of the region. To the southeast is the valley of the Saône river.

In the centre of the plateau (and of the region), there is a group of low mountains: the Morvan. The highest point in Burgundy, the Haut-Folin (), is in these mountains, in the Saône-et-Loire department. It is high.

The main rivers of the region are Yonne, Armançon, Loire, Seine and Saône.

The climate of Burgundy is an oceanic climate with temperate summers, "Cfb" (Marine West Coast Climate) in the Köppen climate classification.

The Burgundy region is formed by four departments:
The Burgundy region has a population, in 2012, of 1,641,130, for a population density of inhabitants/km.
The ten main cities in the region are:
The region is known for its wines, both red and white. Many well-known wines, such as Macon and Beaujolais, were first made here. A few wines are also the 'Arbois'-type. Arbois wines are between red and white and almost yellow in colour.


Duke

A Duke is someone part of nobility. In monarchies, like the UK, the title has legal status, and is inherited in the male line. 

The first English dukes were created by Edward III in 1337, when he gave his eldest son, Edward, the Black Prince, the title of Duke of Cornwall.

Dukes are formally referred to as 'The Duke of (place name)', and addressed as "Your Grace". On State occasions, dukes rank below Royal Dukes, and above Earls. This is called the order of precedence, because in procession to the opening Parliament, or on other state occasions, they walk in order of their rank.

The office or position of a duke is called a dukedom. 

The wife of a duke is a Duchess. This is an honorary title, given for life to the lawfully wedded wife of a Duke. If she divorces and remarries a commoner, (person with no title) their children have no title. The children of a duke, on the other hand, do have honorary titles (so long as they are born in lawful wedlock). The eldest son may bear what is called a junior title which an ancestor was given before the dukedom was created. Other children would be called 'Lady' Jane (or other Christian name) and 'Lord' James (or other Christian name). Children use the family surname, not the Dukedom.

Historically, the land that is ruled by a duke is a duchy. The eldest son of a duke inherits the duchy when the duke dies. The word comes from the Latin word "dux", which means leader.

Latin

Latin is an Italic language that was used in Ancient Rome. Short Latin texts have been found from about the 5th century BC and longer texts from about the 3rd century BC.

Classical Latin was used in the 1st century BC and was the official language of the Roman Empire. It was widely used in the western part of the Mediterranean. The Romance languages developed from its spoken informal version, called Vulgar Latin.

Latin was very important to Christianity for many centuries. It is still spoken today during some religious activities. It is an official language in the Vatican, where the Pope leads the Roman Catholic Church. People in the Vatican sometimes speak to one another in Latin if they have different first languages). The Mass of the Catholic Church is often done entirely in Latin. It is called is the Mass of the Roman Rite (Extraordinary Form).

Latin is called a dead language because no one speaks it as a first language anymore. However, it is not an extinct language because it is still used in daily life by some people. In fact, many people still study it in school. Latin is still useful because it shows how society works. Latin makes it easier to learn the Romance languages.

People still read Latin classics such as the poems of Virgil, the memoirs of Caesar and the speeches of Cicero. Also, Latin is widely used as an international auxiliary language, notably in the Catholic Church and by biologists when they describe and name new species. Some terms used in medicine to name parts of the body (such as bones), and names of some diseases, are also written in Latin.

There are three types of Latin: Classical Latin, Vulgar Latin and Ecclesiastical Latin. Classical Latin was used by the educated Romans and is still studied around the world. Vulgar Latin was the more common spoken variety used by the common Romans and was learned by the peoples conquered by them. Ecclesiastical Latin is common in Italian schools and still used by the Roman Catholic Church.

Latin was once the most important language in most of Europe during the Middle Ages. It was taught in many European schools, and all universities used it as their teaching language. Latin began to lose its importance in the Reformation, but it was still often used by writers of scientific books and encyclopedias. Until around 1900, many universities accepted dissertations written in Latin.

As people from other regions of Europe learned Vulgar Latin during Roman conquests, each region developed its own language, which was a simplified form of Latin. Those languages are called Romance languages and are still spoken today. The five Romance languages with the largest number of speakers are Spanish, French, Portuguese, Italian and Romanian. The Romance languages are very similar to one another, and speakers of one Romance language can understand many words and sentences in both texts and spoken conversations from another Romance language. For example, speakers of Portuguese can often understand Spanish. It can be said that the Romance languages are modern dialects of Latin.

Latin has a similar inflection structure to Ancient Greek but a different alphabet.

Latin has seven different noun cases: nominative, vocative, accusative, genitive, dative, ablative and locative. The vocative case is almost always the same as the nominative case. The locative usually takes the form of the dative. Only place names and some nouns have the locative case. Latin nouns are declined, or changed, according to how they are used in the sentence. A noun can be declined five different ways. These ways are called declensions. The declensions are numbered 1 to 5 (first declension, second declension etc.), each having different endings that identify the noun's declension. When a noun is declined, twelve forms are made, two for each of the noun cases (the locative is omitted).

A similar thing is done to verbs, called conjugation. When a verb is conjugated, six forms are made. There are five factors that can change a verb: person, number, tense, voice and mood. In all, there are 120 possible forms Latin verbs.

Latin used to be written on plates of wax. There was little space and so words were run together, with no space between words. Sometimes papyrus was used, but that was expensive. Punctuation was an ancient idea but came to Latin later. Lowercase letters (small letters) are relatively-modern inventions. The Roman alphabet was derived from Etruscan .

The following is the introduction to the "Metamorphoses" by Ovid (Book 1, lines 89–100) amd describes the Golden Age.

After the fall of the Roman Empire, many people still used Latin. Scholars such as Thomas Aquinas, Petrarch, Erasmus, Luther, Copernicus, Descartes and Newton wrote in Latin. For example, Hugo Grotius published his "De jure belli ac pacis" (On the Law of War and Peace) in Latin as late as 1625, which is one of the bases of international law.


Middle Ages

The Middle Ages were a period of about 1000 years in European history that started around the year 476 , when the Western Roman Empire ended, and continued until around the time that Christopher Columbus arrived in the New World in 1492. Sometimes, 1453 is used instead for the end since the Byzantine Empire fell that year. The period of time is called the "Middle Ages" because it took place between the fall of Rome and early modern Europe, and it is often separated into the Early Middle Ages, the High Middle Ages, and the Late Middle Ages.

People also use other names like the "Medieval Age” to describe the Middle Ages. Another term is “the Age of Faith” because Christianity and Islam then became much more popular. The early Middle Ages have also been called the “Dark Ages” because past scholars wrongly believed that there was very little culture, good literature, art or progress during the period.

Very few people in the Middle Ages could read and so there are not many records from the period. Historians, therefore, do not know as much about the Middle Ages as about other times.

During the Middle Ages, many people’s lives were short, difficult and poor. The fall of the Western Roman Empire and the invasions of barbarian tribes devastated Europe. The Romans had made progress in science, technology, engineering, medicine and literature, but during the Middle Ages, much of their knowledge was lost. There were mass migrations, wars and plagues. For around 300 years, there was continuous violence. Then, the development of feudalism decreased some of the violence.

In 800, Charlemagne became Emperor of the Romans. He promoted order, education, and civilization. Slowly, Europe began to regain what it had lost. Still, the Late Middle Ages were a difficult time. Wars and the bubonic plague killed millions of people in Europe and Asia.

Europe changed a lot during the Middle Ages. Independent unified nation-states formed across the old Western Roman Empire. The new nations included England, Scotland, Hungary, Spain, Portugal, Poland, Lithuania, Denmark, Norway and France (the last which evolved from the realm of the Franks).

In 330 AD, Roman Emperor Constantine created the Eastern Roman Empire (later called the Byzantine Empire). He made its capital city Constantinople (now Istanbul). The Byzantine Empire controlled Asia Minor and Northern Africa and briefly southern Spain and southern Italy. However, its lands were slowly eaten away by enemies like the Ottomans and the Franks.

The Byzantine Empire survived the fall of the Western Roman Empire and lasted until 1453. Constantinople was a walled city on a peninsula, which made it difficult for invaders to take over. Finally, that year, the Ottoman Empire captured Constantinople and called it Istanbul. That was the end of the Byzantine Empire.

The fall of Constantinople to the Ottoman Turks is sometimes called the end of the Middle Ages.

The Islamic prophet Muhammad founded Islam in the early 7th century. Soon after his death in 632, Islam split into two main branches: the Sunni Muslims and the Shi'a. Most Muslims (about 85%) are now Sunni. Shi'a live mostly in Iran and Iraq. The Sunni-Shi'a split has been compared to the later East-West Schism of 1054 or the Protestant Reformation within the Western Christianity starting in 1517.

After Muhammad’s death, Arab Muslims began to take over many Christian territories and convert them to Islam. Over time, they took control of what is now Iraq, Syria, Egypt, North Africa and Spain. (France and other European countries stayed under Christian rule.) Eventually, the Muslim Ottomans Empire conquered parts of Eastern Europe too. Many Muslim states held of vast areas of land, which made them superpowers of the Middle Ages. Islam spread along the major trade routes of the Old World. Many traders and travelers became Muslim.

The Middle Ages were a golden age of knowledge in Muslim territories. Europe was struggling greatly, but the Islamic world was making great progress in the arts, agriculture, economics, industry, law, literature, navigation, philosophy, sciences and technology. Many Muslim caliphs and Sultans gathered the ancient texts of great classical empires. (For example, the caliphs of Andalusia, based in Cordoba, gathered ancient Roman texts, and the Anatolian Seljuk Sultans gathered ancient Greek texts.). During the Islamic Golden Age, Al-Khwarizmi, a Persian Muslim mathematician, helped to develop algebra.

The Golden Age of Islam ended with the Mongol invasions in the mid-13th century.

During the Middle Ages, trade between countries became much more common. Most trade ran along the Silk Road, a trade route that connected Europe to the Middle East and East Asia. Arab traders brought things back and forth between Europe and East Asia along the Silk Road.

Items that were light, easy to carry and valuable traveled the furthest distances. During the High Middle Ages, wealth began to return, and consumers began to demand luxuries again. Traders brought silk, porcelain, spices, incense, gold and gems thousands of miles across deserts, mountains and plains to reach Europe. They also brought glass from Europe to Asia.

Not all items traveled along the entire Silk Road. Traders carrying heavier or less valuable items would travel shorter distances. Food, for example, would usually travel only within a few villages.

Trade was greatly interrupted several times during the Crusades (1095-1291), Mongol invasions, wars between Muslims and Christians and the Black Plague. Histories think the Mongols brought the plague with them from Asia. The disease devastated the world population from 1347 to 1351 and killed almost a third of the world's population although the Americas were not affected.

Buddhism is a non-theistic religion; its followers do not believe in a god. It is based on philosophy and began in India. However, Muslim invaders drove Buddhism out of India, which forced it to flee east. There are very few Buddhists in India today, but Buddhism eventually took up strong roots in China.

During the Middle Ages, the Mongols created the world's largest-ever contiguous empire. Under the leadership of Genghis Khan, the Mongols took over territories in much of Asia, the Middle East, and far Eastern Europe. Because the Mongol Empire was so large and powerful, there was little war within the empire. This is now called the "Pax Mongolica" (Latin for “Mongolian peace”). Like the earlier "Pax Romana" ("Roman Peace"), the "Pax Mongolica" was a time of relative peace and stability. That made it possible for trade, technologies and ideas to travel safely throughout Eurasia. International trade and diplomacy along the Silk Road expanded greatly.

Around the time of his death in 1227, Genghis Khan’s empire had gotten too large to survive. It collapsed under its own size like Alexander the Great's had in Ancient Greece. The former Mongol Empire was split four ways, which allowed the Chinese to become the dominant power in the Far East once again. Later, under the Yuan dynasty, the Chinese also retook control of northern China.

Around 1405, a Chinese admiral, Zheng He, went to explore the world. His fleet of 300 treasure ships explored great areas of the Eastern world. The ships were many times larger than anything the Europeans had built. A Zheng He treasure ship was wider than Columbus' ship "Santa Maria" was long.

The Late Middle Ages were the last two centuries of the Middle Ages, from around 1291, when the Crusades ended, to 1492, when Columbus traveled to the New World. The gun was invented, and changed the way that wars were fought. Aristocracy and feudalism became less important.

Before the Late Middle Ages, armies were formed only when there was a war, but states began to found standing armies, which are permanent. Technology, economy and science developed. New cities were founded, and existing cities grew larger and richer.

During the late Middle Ages, France and England fought the Hundred Years' War. China regained its independence from the Mongol Empire. The Grand Duchy of Moscow, which became the most important state in Eastern Europe, also became independent from the Mongols and later became called “Russia.”

In 1453, the Ottoman Empire conquered the Byzantine Empire. That cut off the Silk Road and so Europeans had to find new trade routes. That triggered the Age of Discovery during the Renaissance. In turn, the Christian states drove the Muslims out of Spain.


Louis Bonaparte

Louis Bonaparte ("Lodewijk Napoleon" in Dutch) (1779-1846), was the younger brother of Napoleon Bonaparte, who made him the King of the Kingdom of Holland in 1806. When Louis disagreed with Napoleon's policies, he dispatched troops against Holland. Louis abdicated in 1810 and lived most of the remainder of his life in Italy. He served with his brother in the Italian campaign of 1796–97 and in Egypt in 1798–99.

Louis was born Luigi Buonaparte in Ajaccio, Corsica to Carlo Bonaparte and Letizia Ramolino. He was the younger brother of Joseph, Napoleon, Lucien and Elisa, and the older brother of Pauline, Caroline and Jérôme.

His early career was spent in the army and he served with Napoleon in Egypt. Thanks to Napoleon, he was a general by the age of 25, although he himself felt that he had risen too far in too short a time. Upon his return to France, he was involved in Napoleon's plot to overthrow the Directory. After becoming first consul, Napoleon arranged a marriage for Louis to Hortense de Beauharnais, the daughter of Empress Josephine and Napoleon's stepdaughter. Hortense, who was opposed to the marriage, was convinced by her mother to marry Louis for the sake of the family.

Napoleon made him king of Holland on June 5, 1806. He took his duties as king seriously, calling himself Koning Lodewijk I (adopting the Dutch form of his name). He practiced speaking the Dutch language and tried to be a responsible, independent ruler of Holland. His attempt at speaking the language earned him some respect from his subjects. He declared that he was Dutch and renounced his French citizenship. He also forced his court and ministers (mostly supplied by Napoleon) to speak only the Dutch language. This was too much for his wife Hortense who refused his request and left Holland. Two major tragedies occurred during his reign: the explosion of a ship filled with gunpowder in the heart of the city of Leiden in 1807, and a major flood in 1809. In both, Louis personally and effectively oversaw local relief efforts, which helped earn him the nickname Louis the Good.

His reign of the Netherlands was short lived, due to a quarrel with his brother. Napoleon wanted Dutch troops for his French invasion of Russia. Louis refused; Napoleon didn't help defend the kingdom, and the British invaded. Napoleon then suggested that Louis should abdicate but he refused. Napoleon removed Louis from the Dutch throne and annexed the Kingdom of Holland on July 1, 1810. 

After his kingdom was taken from him, Louis remained in Holland for nearly three years and turned to writing and poetry. Louis wrote to Napoleon, after the disastrous Russian campaign, to restore him to the Dutch throne. Predictably, Napoleon refused and Louis returned to France in 1813.

After the death of his elder brother Joseph in 1844, Louis was seen by Bonapartists as the rightful Emperor of the French, although he took little action himself to advance the claim. His son and heir, Louis-Napoleon Bonaparte, on the other hand, was at that time imprisoned in France for having tried to engineer a coup d'état. Louis died on July 25 1846, making his youngest son the future Napoleon III.


Michiel de Ruyter

Michiel Adriaenszoon de Ruyter (1607 – 1676) was a famous Dutch admiral. 

De Ruyter was born in Vlissingen. He fought the English in the three Anglo-Dutch Wars and scored several huge victories. He won amongst others the Four Days Battle and the Raid on Medway, close to London, the English capital. He also fought battles against Sweden and France. He died because of injuries he got on a battle against France, he is buried in Amsterdam.

Johan Rudolf Thorbecke

Johan Rudolf Thorbecke (14 January 1798 - 4 June 1872) was an important Dutch politician. In 1848, he wrote a constitution almost on his own. This constitution gave the king less power and the people more, so it made the Netherlands a democracy. Thorbecke was a liberal. Several times he was prime minister, and internal affairs minister.

Thorbecke was a Lutheran and had German roots. He was born in Zwolle and died in The Hague, aged 74.


Karel Doorman

Karel Willem Frederik Marie Doorman (April 23, 1889 in Utrecht - February 28, 1942) was a Dutch admiral (Dutch: "schout-bij-nacht") during World War II.

In 1942 he was made commander of the combined American, British, Dutch and Australian fleet in the Dutch East Indies.

In February 1942, he led his fleet against a much stronger Japanese fleet in the Java Sea. This battle became a disaster for the Allies. Doorman became a hero in the Netherlands, partly of his last words to the fleet: "Ik val aan, volg mij!" (I am attacking, follow me). 

Karel Doorman died when his ship "De Ruyter" (named after the famous Dutch Admiral Michiel de Ruyter) was hit by a torpedo and sank. There was enough time to escape, but Doorman rather went under with his ship, according to old tradition.

The Star-Spangled Banner

"The Star-Spangled Banner" is the national anthem of the United States of America. Francis Scott Key wrote the words to it in 1814, after seeing British ships attacking Fort McHenry in Baltimore, Maryland during the War of 1812.

The words are set to the music of a British drinking song called "To Anacreon in Heaven". The song has 4 stanzas, but only the first one is usually sung. 

Although the United States does not have an official language, English is the most used language in everyday life; thus, the official lyrics are in English. However, through the years, "The Star-Spangled Banner" has been translated into other languages. These languages are spoken by people living in the United States, who trace their roots to other parts of the globe. These languages include Spanish, German, Yiddish, Czech, Polish, French, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Chinese, and Arabic.

It has also been translated into languages spoken by native Americans, such as Navajo. A fairly well-known Navajo version called "Dah Naatʼaʼí Sǫʼ bił Sinil" was translated by singer and former beauty pageant titleholder Radmilla Cody.

The full poem consists of four stanzas with a total of thirty-two lines. But usually, just the first stanza is sung and is the most well-known among Americans.

Three versions of "The Star-Spangled Banner" have been translated into the Spanish language. The first one was done by Francis Haffkine Snow for the United States Bureau of Education.

The second one was done by a Peruvian American musician named Clotilde Arias, for a competition held by then-president Franklin D. Roosevelt, as a part of his Good Neighbor policy in an effort to promote American ideals in Latin America. This musician was the winner of this contest and her Spanish version was accepted by the United States Department of State in 1946.

Another version of "The Star-Spangled Banner" in Spanish is a single by many recording artists and singer-songwriters. It is probably the most well-known version. This version is titled "Nuestro Himno" (meaning "Our Anthem"), written by Adam Kidron and Eduardo Reyes. Kidron started the whole idea because he wanted to show support for Hispanic immigrants in the U.S. In 2006, a change to U.S. immigration policy ticked off many people in the United States. "Nuestro Himno" was created in response to this change. The song was released on April 28, 2006 for their album "Somos Americanos" (meaning "We are Americans"). Many artists including Andy Andy, Autoridad de la Sierra, Aventura, Ivy Queen, Wyclef Jean, Kalimba, Kany, LDA, N Klabe, Patrulla 81, Pitbull, Ponce Carlos, Rayito, Reik, Frank Reyes, Tony Sunshine, Olga Tañón, Gloria Trevi, Voz a Voz and Yemọja were involved in the making of this song. It was recorded in many cities including New York City, Miami, Los Angeles, San Juan, Mexico City, and Madrid. The first verse is based on the first verse of the version by Francis Haffkine Snow in 1909. Although it quickly gained popularity, there have been some people who disliked this idea. Such people included then-president George W. Bush, who did not approve of foreigners changing the national anthem into a language other than English, as well as by a relative of Francis Scott Key—the original author of the national anthem.

In 1861, a version of "The Star-Spangled Banner" was translated by German American poet and immigrant named Niclas Müller.

A version of "The Star-Spangled Banner" was translated into French by a Cajun named David Émile Marcantel.

A Navajo version of "The Star-Spangled Banner" was performed by model and singer Radmilla Cody. It is titled "Dah Naatʼaʼí Sǫʼ bił Sinil" in the Navajo language, under her first album "Within the Four Directions".

A Yiddish version titled "Di Shtern-Batsirte Fon" was translated by a Jewish American poet named Dr. Avrom Aisen, on the hundredth anniversary of Scott Key's death. It was published in 1943 by the Educational Alliance located New York City.

Samoan is a language spoken in American Samoa, the American part of the Pacific island of Samoa.


Abdou Diouf

Abdou Diouf (born 7 September 1935) was president of Senegal from 1981 to 2000. He was the second president since the country became independent.

Diouf has been the Secretary General of "La Francophonie" since 2003.

Needle

A needle is a small tool used to push or pull a thread through a small hole. It is most often used to make clothing and footwear.

The needle consists of a short stick with a sharp point and hole for the thread. Needles are now mostly made of steel, but in ancient or Stone Age times they would have been made of small bones or twigs.

Once the thread is put through the hole in the needle and "doubled-back" so that it cannot fall out, then the whole needle and its thread can be put through the material.

The term needle may also be used to refer to other sharp objects used for different purposes, such as the needles doctors use to give a shot.

Province

A province is a subdivision of a country. It is a kind of local government.

Some countries are divided into provinces. The word "province" comes from the Latin word "provincia".

South Africa, Canada, the Netherlands, Pakistan, Spain, and Denmark are examples of countries that are divided into provinces.

In some countries, provinces have different names:

Departments usually have less power than provinces. States, Bundesländer and autonomous communities have more power than provinces.

Small countries like Singapore or Monaco are not divided.

Jade

Jade is a kind of stone. We use the name "jade" for two different sorts of mineral. The first sort is nephrite. This is a form of actinolite (asbestos is a sort of actinolite, too). The second sort is the mineral jadeite, and it is a pyroxene. The first sort (nephrite) is harder than the second sort (jadeite). The first sort (jadeite) has more colors that the second sort (nephrite).

Nephrite is Ca(Mg, Fe)SiO(OH). 
Jadeite is NaAlSiO. 

The two sorts of jade look nearly the same. People only found that they were two different sorts in 1863. The nephrite form of jade is very hard. In the past, Chinese people and the Maori used it to make knives and weapons. Later, when people could use metals, they liked jade because it looked nice and they thought it had special powers. Today people also use jade for jewelry.

Jade was found about 7000 years ago. The Chinese later made jewelry out of it. Only the rich could have jade because it was so rare and expensive. It was said that jade had healing powers and it was regarded as very lucky.

Viktor Yushchenko

Viktor Andriyovych Yushchenko () (born February 23, 1954) is a previous President of Ukraine. On November 26, 2004, he lost the Ukrainian presidential election. However, he and his followers argued that the election had been corrupted. They argued that the election results had been falsified by the Ukrainian government, in support of the opposing candidate Viktor Yanukovych. They organized political demonstrations in the autumn and winter of 2004 that gathered millions of people all over the country. They called the demonstrations "The Orange Revolution". The Constitutional Court ordered a second round of elections, which Yuschenko won.

Yushchenko claimed to have been poisoned by political enemies. He was hospitalized and his appearance showed signs of a serious illness.

Yulia Tymoshenko and Yushchenko were once strong allies (during the Orange Revolution). Today there is a lot of political misunderstanding between Tymoshenko and Yushchenko.

In February 2010 Yushchenko lost the presidential election to Viktor Yanukovych. 

From December 1999 till May 2001 Yushchenko was the Ukrainian prime minister and from January 1993 till December 1999 head of the national bank of Ukraine.

Viktor Yanukovych

Viktor Fedorovych Yanukovych (; born July 9, 1950, Yenakiieve, Stalin Region, Ukrainian SSR) is a Ukrainian politician who was the 4th President of Ukraine from 2010 to 2014; found guilty of treason. On January 12, 2015, he was declared wanted by Interpol

He was Prime Minister of Ukraine from November 2002 until December 2004 (he was forced to resign (leave office early) on 31 December 2004). He again was Prime Minister of Ukraine from 4 August 2006 until 18 December 2007. He is the former leader of the Party of Regions the biggest political party of Ukraine. The party was formerly part of the Ukrainian government.

In November 2004, he won the presidential election. Viktor Yushchenko, his opponent, said the result was false. Large daily demonstrations supporting Viktor Yushchenko followed. They were named "The Orange Revolution". Ukrainian Judges decided that there would be new elections in December 2004. Victor Yuschenko won those elections and became president of Ukraine.

Yanukovych was supported by Vladimir Putin of Russia and by the former Ukrainian president Leonid Kuchma.

In February 2010, he won the presidential election; Yulia Tymoshenko, who lost the election with a 3.48% difference, said he won because of fraud.

Yanukovych was a victim of poverty in his childhood and was twice put in prison for violent crimes in his youth.

After mass protest in Ukraine during February 2014, Yanukovych was forced-out of office on 22 February 2014. Oleksandr Turchynov became acting president.

On December 15, 1967, at the age of 17, Viktor Yanukovych was first sentenced to 3 years in prison for participating in a robbery.

For the second time, Viktor Yanukovych was prosecuted for inflicting moderate bodily injuries under Art. 102 of the Criminal Code of the Ukrainian SSR and sentenced on June 8, 1970 to 2 years of imprisonment.

In connection with the events of Euromaidan, the phrase "Golden Toilet" became a symbol and synonym of the Yanukovych regime. In many informal speeches, the phrase is used as a euphemism for the rule of Viktor Fedorovich and his political entourage.

During the two months of Yanukovych's presidency and the existence of the pro-presidential majority and the government in Ukraine, the pressure on the media and the curtailment of freedom of speech intensified. In particular, independent experts noted the politicization of the First National TV Channel. The facts of censorship on commercial TV channels have become more frequent: journalists of "1 + 1" and "STB" have stated the facts of censorship by their management, and journalists of STB state the existence of facts of censorship since 2008.

Viktor Yanukovych, along with Prime Minister Mykola Azarov and Interior Minister Vitaliy Zakharchenko, became the biggest enemies of the Ukrainian press in 2012-2013, according to an annual survey by the Institute of Mass Media and the Independent Media Trade Union.

As of May 15, 2014, 6 criminal cases of abuse of power were being investigated against Yanukovych. The cases are included in the Unified Register of Pre-trial Investigations.


Salt

In chemistry, a salt is any neutral chemical compound made of cations (positive ions) attached to anions (negative ions). The main kind of salt is sodium chloride with the chemical formula NaCl. It is formed when hydrochloric acid is added to sodium hydroxide. The reaction is as follows
HCl+NaOH2 gives NaCl+H20+heat

Mixtures of salts in water are called electrolytes. Electricity is able to pass through electrolytes, as well as molten salts.

Salts can melt ice, because salts lower the temperature needed for liquid to freeze. Because of that, streets are sometimes treated with salt in winter, if the temperature is only a little below freezing.

A salt can also be explained as an ionic compound which dissociates, forming a positive ion other than hydrogen ion, and a negative ion other than hydroxyl ion.

Because many germs cannot live in salt, it has been used to preserve food. Its use as a food preservative helped large amounts of food to be stored, sent a long way, and eaten all through the year. This helped populations to grow, cities to develop, and soldiers in wars to be fed. Salt was probably used in Egypt as long ago as 4000 BC. In ancient times, salt was more valuable than it is now, because it was hard to get in many places, and could be used not only to give foods flavor, but also to make them last longer. It allowed food to be kept past its season, and taken on long trips.

People often traded salt for other things. It was of high value in China, Turkey, the Middle East, and Africa. In the Mediterranean area, including Ancient Rome, salt was even used for money. The word "salary" comes from the Latin word for salt, because they paid people in salt. After people learned how to get salt from the ocean, salt became cheaper. The Phoenicians were some of the first to figure out how to do this, by pouring seawater on dry land. Then when it dried, they collected the salt and sold it.

Another use of salt was in war, as a way to punish a city by ruining its crops. This is called "salting the Earth". The Assyrians are said to have been one of the first to have done this to their neighbours.

Salts can be found in all different colours: yellow (sodium chromate), orange (potassium dichromate), red (mercury sulphide), mauve (cobalt chloride hexahydrate), blue (copper sulfate pentahydrate, ferric hexacyanoferrate), green (nickel oxide), colorless (magnesium sulphate), white (titanium dioxide), and black (manganese dioxide). Most minerals and inorganic pigments, as well as many synthetic organic dyes, are salts.

"See also Table salt"

Business

A business is an organization where people work together. In a business, people work to make and sell products or services. Other people buy the products and services. The business owner is the person who hires people for work. A business can earn a profit for the products and services it offers. The word "business" comes from the word "busy", and means doing things. It works on regular basis.

Originally, individual trades people were qualified, and they hired assistants. The invention of the joint-stock company meant a new era in business. By this means, some people put up the money as capital, and others used it to run the business. There is a law which says this kind of company is a "legal entity": it has a legal life separate from its owners or shareholders. In this way, a company can outlive the people who started it. This idea was invented in medieval times, but really flowered in the 19th century. It has spread around the world since then.

Most businesses are created for commerce. There are big and small businesses. For example, one person can open a small barber-shop. A big business, like Microsoft, employs thousands of people all over the world.

Some businesses need fixed locations. Examples are an office, store, or farm. For some businesses the worker goes to different locations. Examples are carpenters or electricians. They usually bring everything they need for work in their truck.

"Business" can also mean the work or current state of a business. A business owner might say: "I am doing a lot of business" or "My business is good" or "Business is bad".

The term can also be used in a more general way. As a noun, it can be used, for example, to speak about a broad area of activity.

Winter

Winter is one of the four seasons and it is the coldest time of the year. The days are shorter, and the nights are longer. Winter comes after autumn and before spring.

Winter begins at the winter solstice. In the Northern Hemisphere the winter solstice is usually December 21 or December 22. In the Southern Hemisphere the winter solstice is usually June 21 or June 22.

Some animals hibernate during this season. In temperate climates there are no leaves on deciduous trees. People wear warm clothing, and eat food that was grown earlier. Many places have snow in winter, and some people use sleds or skis. Holidays in winter for many countries include Christmas and New Year's Day.

The name comes from an old Germanic word that means "time of water" and refers to the rain and snow of winter in middle and high latitudes.

Junta

A junta is a Spanish word that is used for military dictatorships. 

Often juntas got their power because of a coup d'état. Juntas are different from other dictatorships because they are ruled by a group of military officers instead of one person.

Greece, Chile, Mauritania, Guatemala, Brazil, South Vietnam, and El Salvador are examples of countries that were once ruled by juntas.

The most famous junta nowadays is that of Myanmar.

Some autonomous regional governments in Spain are also called junta.

Nezahualcoyotl

Nezahualcoyotl (1402 - 1472) was king of Texcoco, a part of the Aztec empire. He was also a famous poet.

The name Nezahualcoyotl is Nahuatl, it means "hungry coyote".

Miguel Hidalgo

Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla (8 May, 1753 – 30 July, 1811) was a Mexican priest. He started Mexico's war of independence against Spain.

Hidalgo made a speech in 1810 now called the Grito de Dolores. He called on the people to support the King of Spain against the rebellious Viceroy of Mexico. After a few months he was taken prisoner and executed by firing squad. After he died, several other people, such as Vicente Guerrero, kept fighting against the Spanish until 1821, when Mexico became an independent country. Hidalgo is remembered today as a great liberator in Mexico.

The Mexican state of Hidalgo is named after him. 

Death penalty

Death penalty, also called capital punishment, is when a government or state executes (kills) someone, usually but not always because they have committed a serious crime. A crime that can be punished with the death penalty is called a capital crime or a capital offense.

Executions in most countries have become rarer in recent centuries. The death penalty is a disputed and controversial topic. Generally, right-wing parties are supportive of the death penalty: centrist and left-wing parties are opposed to it. 
However, Far-left parties like Communist and Soviet Parties also support the Death Penalty.

About one third of the countries in the world have laws that allow the death penalty. The United States, the People's Republic of China, Japan, Indonesia and Iran are examples of countries that have a death penalty. Canada, Australia, Mexico and all members of Council of Europe are examples of countries that have abolished the death penalty. 109 countries have gotten rid of the capital punishment for all crimes. Another 28 can be considered abolitionist in practice. Countries are considered abolitionist in practice if they retain the death penalty in law but have not carried out any executions for the past 10 years or more. 

Most of the countries that have a death penalty use it on murderers, and for other serious crimes such as rape or terrorism. Other countries especially ones with Authoritarian or Totalitarian governments, however, also use it for smaller crimes like theft, drugs, or for saying bad things about the government.

A study by Amnesty International found that the following countries did the most executions in 2012: 


Here's the list for 1998:

A total of 557 people were executed in the United States between 1977, when the death penalty was reintroduced after a 10-year break, and 2000. During this period, 20 states did not carry out any executions. Here are the states with the most executions during this time:

<nowiki>*</nowiki>The Russian Soviet Socialist Republic, as part of the Soviet Union, reinstated capital punishment during the time of the Soviet Union.

It is common to have people executed for crimes including murder, manslaughter and attempted murder, but there are also other crimes that carry the death penalty. Some of these are:

During war time, the following crimes are punished by death:

According to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights that became valid in 1976, people that were less than eighteen years old when they committed the crime may not be executed. According to the European Convention on Human Rights (which is effective in many European countries), specifically its 13th amendment (2002), no one can be executed. 

There is a lot of different opinions on the topic of capital punishment. As it is an important topic, each country has very strong feelings. Many people say the death penalty is reasonable because it scares people away from doing things that are illegal. However, many others say there is a potential of executing an innocent person. Some people say the death penalty supports justice, retribution, and punishment. The other side says that execution is murder. Most people know the threat of crime to their lives, but the question lies in the methods and action that should be used to deal with it. 

Throughout human history, governments and rulers have used many death penalty methods to execute people, such as crucifixion, flaying, and hanging. Some methods like crucifixion and flaying are no longer used by governments, because people think that these methods of killing are too cruel. The gas chamber was found unconstitutional in the United States (that is: against the United States constitution not allowing "cruel and unusual punishments") and is no longer used. 

The Council of Europe has abolished all death penalty by 13th amendment of the European Convention on Human Rights. Amnesty International oppose all death penalty on ground of the right to life and prohibition of all tortures or any cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment insisted by Universal Declaration of Human Rights.

The following forms of execution are in use today:



