Kinetic energy


Kinetic energy is the energy that an object has because of its motion. This energy can be converted into other kinds, such as gravitational or electric potential energy, which is the energy that an object has because of its position in a gravitational or electric field.

Kinetic Energy is the maximum amount of work a moving body due to its motion can do, whereas Potential energy is the maximum amount of work a body can do due to its configuration or position in a field force. Kinetic Energy is valid for all sorts of forces as seen from this derivation.

but Potential Energy is not as can be seen here
which clearly suggests that only conservative forces can have potential energy associated with them; see conservation of energy.

The translational kinetic energy of an object is:

where

The rotational kinetic energy of an object is:

where

Potential energy

Potential energy is the stored or pent-up energy of an object. It is often contrasted with kinetic energy. 

In physics, potential energy is the energy which an object has due to its position in a force field or which a system has due to the way its parts are arranged. 
Common types include the gravitational potential energy of an object that depends on its vertical position and mass, the elastic potential energy of an extended spring, and the electric potential energy of a charge in an electric field. The SI unit for energy is the joule (symbol J).

Potential energy is often associated with restoring forces such as a spring or the force of gravity. The action of stretching the spring or lifting the mass is performed by an external force that works against the force field of the potential. This work is stored in the force field, which is said to be stored as potential energy. If the external force is removed the force field acts on the body to perform the work as it moves the body back to the initial position, reducing the stretch of the spring or causing a body to fall. When this happens, potential energy changes into kinetic energy. The total energy stays the same because of the law of conservation of energy.

Physicists say that potential energy is the difference between the energy of an object in a given position and its energy at a reference position.

There are various types of potential energy, each associated with a particular type of force.

Gravitational potential energy is experienced by an object when height and mass is a factor in the system. Gravitational potential energy causes objects to move towards each other. 
If an object is lifted a certain distance from the surface from the Earth, the force experienced is caused by weight and height.
Work is defined as force over a distance, and work is another word for energy. The potential energy added when you lift an object is:

or

Here, formula_5 is the acceleration due to gravity.

The total work done by gravitational potential energy when an object falls from position 1 to position 2 is:

or

Electric potential energy is experienced by charges both different and alike, as they repel or attract each other. Charges can either be positive (+) or negative (-), where opposite charges attract and similar charges repel.
If two charges were placed a certain distance away from each other, the potential energy stored between the charges can be calculated by:

Elastic potential energy is experienced when a rubbery material is pulled away or pushed together. A spring for example stores elastic potential energy. The amount of potential energy the material has depends on the distance pulled or pushed. The longer the distance pushed, the greater the elastic potential energy the material has.
If a material is pulled or pushed, the potential energy can be calculated by:


Ship

A ship is a large vehicle used to travel on water. It is bigger than a boat. Most are cargo ships, which carry most of the world's international trade. There are also many warships, passenger ships and other kinds for different purposes.

When people talk about a ship, they often use the pronoun "she". For example: She was launched on 29 December 1878.

The first ships used oars or the wind (or both) to make them move.

From about 4000 BC the Ancient Egyptians were making wooden sail boats. By 1200 BC the Phoenicians and Greeks had begun to make bigger sailing ships which were about 30 metres (100 feet) long and could carry 90180 tonnes of cargo. The Romans made even bigger ships which could carry up to 1,000 people and 1,000 tonnes of cargo. The 8th century saw the rise of the Vikings, who were famous for their "longships" and which were mainly used for raiding other countries, but also for trading. The longships had flat bottoms so they could move in shallow (not deep) rivers.

Sailing ships were used for thousands of years, but they were very important from the Age of Discovery to the 19th century. The Chinese admiral Zheng He commanded a fleet of large 'treasure ships' on seven voyages all over Asia up to East-Africa in the early fifteenth century. The most successful and largest fleet in the 17th century was the Dutch fleet (see the Netherlands). For trade and transport the Dutch often used a particular kind of trading ship, called a flute ("fluyt" in Dutch). Transport of people and cargo on sailing ships became rare in the early 20th century.

Some famous ships from this era include:

In the 19th century, steamboats became commonplace.

At one time, the steamships "Titanic", "Olympic", and "Britannic" were the largest ships in the world, "Titanic" sank on her maiden voyage after hitting an iceberg, becoming one of the most famous shipwrecks of all time, the "Olympic" was "Titanic" 's nearly identical twin, and actually set sail before "Titanic" and was scrapped in the 1930s after a very successful career including her being a passenger liner and a warship in World War I. The "Britannic" was the largest of these three sister ships, and was supposed to be more grand and elegant than the "Titanic", but before she set sail on her maiden voyage, WWI broke out and she was stripped of her elegant furniture and elaborate paneling and became a hospital ship. During her term as a hospital ship, she was sunk by either a mine or torpedo, no one knows for sure. The "Titanic" lies at the bottom of the North Atlantic Ocean, off the coast of Nova Scotia, and the "Britannic" lies in the Aegean Sea, off the coast of the Island of Kea.

After World War II ships with diesel engines became commonplace. Passenger airliners replaced passenger ships for long trips in the late 20th century. Cargo ships became much bigger. The main kinds are container ships for mostly manufactured goods, and bulk carriers including oil tankers.

The world's largest ship is the "Prelude", owned by Shell. It is being built on Geoje Island, South Korea. It is 488m long and has the internal capacity greater than the total volume of four large aircraft carriers. What it will do is collect natural gas off the coast of Australia, and liquify it. When liquified, the hydrocarbon takes up 600 times less space than its gas. Smaller tankers will take the liquid gas to its buyers. The ship will do liquifying and temporary storage, which is usually done on land. Shell believes this justifies the cost of the ship.

The shipping yard builds all kinds of structures for the oil industry. It employs 30,000 workers.



