Sherwood Forest


Sherwood Forest is an ancient woodland near Nottingham, England. It is famous as the home of the mythical outlaw, Robin Hood and his men (and Maid Marian). Legend claims that they lived near the Major Oak. Its branches are now supported by props. 

Mount Everest

Mount Everest is the highest mountain on Earth. Mount Everest is located in the Himalayas, a tall mountain range in Asia. It is about high.

Mount Everest is on the line between two countries: Nepal and China. The top of the mountain is in the "death zone" where the air is too thin for a human to live. People need large bottles of oxygen to let them breathe. The first people to get to the top were Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay in 1953. 

There are 18 ways (paths or routes) to get to the top, but most people use only two ways.

The Sherpa people live near the bottom of Mount Everest. Mount Everest is important in their religion, and they call the mountain "Chomolungma" (mother of the earth).

In 1856, the British people made a map of India and measured the height of Mount Everest. They recorded the mountain at and called it Peak XV (Peak Fifteen). In 1865, a group of people in England, the Royal Geographical Society, made a decision to name the mountain Mount Everest.

British people came to the area around Mount Everest in 1921. In 1922, the first group (expedition) tried to go up the mountain. In 1924, a famous English man named George Leigh Mallory and his partner Andrew Irvine tried to get to the top of Mount Everest. They disappeared on June 8th and died. Their bodies were found in 1999.

In May 1953, the first people got to the top. They were a Sherpa man named Tenzing Norgay and a man from New Zealand named Edmund Hillary.

Now, many people go up the mountain every year. They start in China or in Nepal. Sometimes, a country will stop people from going up the mountain. In 2020, Nepal stopped people from going up Mount Everest because people were getting ill from the coronavirus (during the 2019–20 coronavirus pandemic).

The Sherpa people live high in Nepal near the mountain. Because the mountain is important in their religion, a Sherpa person will give something to the gods before they go up the mountain.

Some Sherpas work to help other people go up the mountain. In the spring, they look for the safest way through the rock and ice to go to the top. They take things like food, water, and bottles of air (oxygen) up the mountain.

Base camps are at the bottom ("base") of the mountain. There are two base camps on opposite sides of the mountain: the South Base Camp in Nepal at and the North Base Camp in Tibet, China at high. The camps are simple places for people to rest, sleep, or eat when they go up and down the mountain. People often rest at the camps for about a week before they go up Mount Everest. Resting lets the body become comfortable with the thin air, so people do not become very ill with altitude sickness.

The base camps have supplies like food or water. People (usually Sherpas) or large animals like yaks take supplies to the South Base Camp in Nepal. There is a road to the North Base Camp in China, so automobiles can take supplies there in the summer.

The South Base Camp () is used when climbing up the southeast ridge. The North Base Camp () is used when climbing up the northeast ridge.

Mount Everest is very cold and snowy. Winds can be . The coldest month is January with a high of and the warmest month is July with a high of . Because the Earth is getting warmer from climate change, the ice (glaciers) around Mount Everest may be gone by the year 2100.

In 2023, a climber (Kami Rita) became the first to get to the top of the mountain 27 times.

Most people say that Mount Everest is the highest mountain, because it is high from sea level. But, two other mountains can be named the "highest" mountains.

One is Mauna Loa, which is a tall volcano on the Hawaiian Islands. Mauna Loa is high from sea level. But the bottom of Mauna Loa is deep underwater, and from the bottom to the top it is about . Some people say that Mauna Loa is the "tallest" mountain, not the "highest" mountain.

Another is Mount Chimborazo, which is a tall mountain in South America. The top of Mount Chimbroazo is the farthest from the center of the Earth. This is because of the shape of the Earth: the Earth is wider at the Equator than at the poles (North Pole and South Pole).


Luanda

Luanda is the capital and the largest city of Angola. Its former name was Loanda. It is a main seaport of the country on the Atlantic Ocean. In 1995, about 3 million people lived there.

It is a center of manufacturing, but very destroyed because of a long civil war.

It was founded by Portuguese in 1575 as São Paulo de Luanda and has been the administrative center of Angola since 1627 (except for 1640–1648). When Angola got independence in 1975, it became the capital of Angola.

Pepsi

Pepsi is a carbonated cola soft drink made by PepsiCo. A can of Pepsi (330ml) has 8 cubes of sugar in it, whereas Coca-Cola has 7.

They often sponsor (help fund/advertise on an event) sports events and music events, like the Super Bowl. Pepsi also has huge sponsorships for the MGM Mirage hotels in Las Vegas, Nevada. They only serve Pepsi products at the hotels.

Pepsi comes in many different flavors, and forms. A few of the different Pepsi types include Diet Pepsi, Pepsi Max, Pepsi ONE, Crystal Pepsi, Pepsi Wild Cherry, etc.

It was first introduced as "Brad's Drink" in New Bern, North Carolina in 1898 by Caleb Bradham, who made it at his pharmacy where the drink was sold. It was later named Pepsi Cola, possibly due to the digestive enzyme pepsin and kola nuts used in the recipe. Bradham sought to create a fountain drink that was delicious and would aid in digestion and boost energy.

In 1903, Bradham moved the bottling of Pepsi-Cola from his drugstore to a rented warehouse. That year, Bradham sold 7,968 gallons of syrup. The next year, Pepsi was sold in six-ounce bottles, and sales increased to 19,848 gallons. In 1909, automobile race pioneer Barney Oldfield was the first celebrity to endorse Pepsi-Cola, describing it as "A bully drink. refreshing, invigorating, a fine bracer before a race".

During the Great Depression, Pepsi gained popularity following the introduction in 1936 of a 12-ounce bottle. Initially priced at 10 cents, sales were slow, but when the price was slashed to five cents, sales increased substantially. With a radio advertising campaign featuring the jingle "Pepsi-Cola hits the spot/Twelve full ounces, that's a lot/Twice as much for a nickel, too/Pepsi-Cola is the drink for you," arranged in such a way that the jingle never ends. Pepsi encouraged price-watching consumers to switch, obliquely referring to the Coca-Cola standard of six ounces per bottle for the price of five cents a nickel, instead of the 12 ounces Pepsi sold at the same price. Coming at a time of economic crisis, the campaign succeeded in boosting Pepsi's status. In 1937 500,000,000 bottles of Pepsi were consumed. From 1936 to 1938, Pepsi-Cola's profits doubled. In 1962 the name is changed to Pepsi.

Pepsi's success under Guth came while the Loft Candy business was faltering. Since he had initially used Loft's finances and facilities to establish the new Pepsi success, the near-bankrupt Loft Company sued Guth for possession of the Pepsi-Cola company. A long legal battle, "Guth v. Loft", then ensued, with the case reaching the Delaware Supreme Court and ultimately ending in a loss for Guth.

In 1975, Pepsi introduced the Pepsi Challenge marketing campaign where PepsiCo set up a blind tasting between Pepsi-Cola and rival Coca-Cola. During these blind taste tests the majority of participants picked Pepsi as the better tasting of the two soft drinks. PepsiCo took great advantage of the campaign with television commercials reporting the results to the public.

In 1976 Pepsi, RKO Bottlers in Toledo, Ohio hired the first female Pepsi salesperson, Denise Muck, to coincide with the United States bicentennial celebration.

In 1996, PepsiCo launched the highly successful Pepsi Stuff marketing strategy. By 2002, the strategy was cited by Promo Magazine as one of 16 "Ageless Wonders" that "helped redefine promotion marketing."

In 2007, PepsiCo redesigned their cans for the fourteenth time, and for the first time, included more than thirty different backgrounds on each can, introducing a new background every three weeks. One of their background designs includes a string of repetitive numbers 73774. This is a numerical expression from a telephone keypad of the word "Pepsi."

In late 2008, Pepsi overhauled their entire brand, simultaneously introducing a new logo and a minimalist label design. The redesign was comparable to Coca-Cola's earlier simplification of there can and bottle designs. Also in 4th quarter of 2008 Pepsi teamed up with Google/Youtube to produce the first daily entertainment show on Youtube, Poptub. This daily show deals with pop culture, internet viral videos, and celebrity gossip. Poptub is updated daily from Pepsi.

Since 2007, Pepsi, Lay's, and Gatorade have had a "Bring Home the Cup," contest for Canada's biggest hockey fans. Hockey fans were asked to submit content (videos, pictures or essays) for a chance at winning a party in their hometown with the Stanley Cup and Mark Messier.

In 2009, "Bring Home the Cup," changed to "Team Up and Bring Home the Cup." The new installment of the campaign asks for team involvement and an advocate to submit content on behalf of their team for the chance to have the Stanley Cup delivered to the team's hometown by Mark Messier.

Pepsi has official sponsorship deals with three of the four major North American professional sports leagues: the National Football League, National Hockey League and Major League Baseball. Pepsi also sponsors Major League Soccer.

Pepsi also has sponsorship deals in international cricket teams. The Pakistan cricket team is just one of the teams that the brand sponsors. The team wears the Pepsi logo on the front of their test and ODI test match clothing.

On July 6, 2009, Pepsi announced it would make a $1 billion investment in Russia over three years, bringing the total Pepsi investment in the country to $4 billion.

In July 2009, Pepsi started marketing itself as Pecsi in Argentina in response to its name being mispronounced by 25% of the population and as a way to connect more with all of the population.

In October 2008, Pepsi announced that it would be redesigning its logo and re-branding many of its products by early 2009. In 2009, Pepsi, Diet Pepsi and Pepsi Max began using all lower-case fonts for name brands, and Diet Pepsi Max was re-branded as Pepsi Max. The brand's blue and red globe trademark became a series of "smiles," with the central white band arcing at different angles depending on the product. Pepsi released this logo in US. in late 2008, and later it was released in 2009 in Canada, Brazil, Bolivia, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Honduras, El Salvador, Colombia, Argentina, Puerto Rico, Costa Rica, Panama, Chile and Australia; in the rest of the world the new logo was released in 2010.

A new logo was introduced in 2023 and started appearing on products in the United States August 2023.


Penguin

Penguins are seabirds in the family Spheniscidae. They use their wings to swim underwater, but they cannot fly in the air. They eat fish and other seafood. Penguins lay their eggs and raise their babies on land.

Penguins in the wild only live in the Southern Hemisphere: Antarctica, New Zealand, Australia, South Africa and South America, except Galápagos penguins. The furthest north they get is the Galapagos Islands, where the cold Humboldt Current flows past.

All penguins have a white belly and a dark, mostly black, back. This is a type of camouflage to keep them safe when they swim because it makes them blend in with their background. The white and black colors make an effect called countershading. While a predator looking from below sees the white belly and wings of a swimming penguin, it can't see the penguin well because the light is coming from above. However, when seen from above, the penguin's black back blends in with the dark water below, so they are hard to see from both angles.

The biggest penguins, emperor penguins, may stand nearly 4 feet tall (110 cm) and can weigh almost 100 pounds (40 kg) but the smallest, little penguins, are only about one foot (32 cm) tall.

Penguins have a thick layer of blubber that helps them keep warm and their feathers are very tightly packed to make another cover. They also have a layer of woolly down feathers, under the outer veined feathers that are coated with a type of oil that makes them waterproof.

Penguins have webbed feet used for paddling in the water. They cannot walk well, so they waddle. Penguins cannot fly, but they can swim very well. Their wings have become stiff and small swimming flippers. They have good hearing and can see underwater.

Most penguins lay two eggs per year but emperor penguins lay only one. After the penguins mate, the mother lays her egg or eggs and soon goes to the ocean to eat. The father and mother take turns keeping the eggs warm and the chicks warm after hatching. The parent on baby duty has nothing to eat. Parent penguins call to find each other amongst the thousands of birds when they return from the feeding grounds. The time one parent is alone with the eggs or chicks and going hungry may be weeks or months depending on what kind of penguin they are. If one parent does not return, the other must abandon the egg to go and eat. Climate change is a threat to penguins along with other antarctic animals. 70% of king penguins are expected to relocate or disappear in less than eighty years, due to the effects of climate change.

Penguins eat krill, fish, squid and other small animals from the ocean. They are at home in the ocean. They come up on the land or ice to lay their eggs and raise the chicks. They live in places where the land has no food for them. In most species, the birds all nest together in a huge group called a rookery. They usually make nests on the ground with rocks or mud.

Penguins cannot taste fish. This was discovered when a research team noticed they were missing some key genes for taste. A closer look at the DNA of penguins showed that all species lack functioning genes for the receptors of sweet, umami, and bitter tastes. It doesn't matter to them, because they swallow the fish whole. Birds do not swallow straight into their stomachs, as we do. They have a crop for storage and a gizzard with swallowed stones for grinding food. This compensates for their lack of teeth. 

Penguins love to eat krill, squid, and other sea animals. They dive into the sea, and bite their prey and quickly swim out of the ocean.

There are 15–20 living species of penguins. The white-flippered penguin is today generally considered a subspecies of the little penguin. It is still unclear if the royal penguin is a subspecies of the macaroni penguin. Scientists are also uncertain whether rockhopper penguins are one, two, or three species. King penguins live up to 25 years.




