Note (disambiguation)


Note has several meanings.


Ravi Shankar

Ravi Shankar (7 April 1920 – 11 December 2012) was one of India's most famous musicians. Shankar was one of the first to bring aspects of traditional Indian music into Europe and United States|American culture in the 1960s. He was a major influence on George Harrison, who was a member of The Beatles. Shankar is famous for playing the sitar, an Indian stringed instrument. He performed until his death. In 2005 he played at The Proms. His daughters Norah Jones and Anoushka Shankar are also well-known musicians.

Sentence

A sentence is a group of words that are joined together to mean something. A sentence is the basic unit of language. It expresses a complete thought. It does this by following the grammatical basic rules of syntax. For example: "Ram is walking".

A complete sentence has at least a subject and a main verb to state (declare) a complete thought. Short example: "She walks". A subject is the noun (name) which is doing the main verb. The main verb is the activity that the subject is doing. 

In English and many other languages, the first word of a written sentence has a capital letter. At the end of the sentence there is a punctuation mark depending on whether it is a statement, a question, a command, a request or an exclamation.

A "phrase" or "clause" is part of a sentence.

This is an example of a sentence:
In this sentence, 'The dog' is the subject, and 'is' is the verb.

This is an example of a phrase:

There is no verb, so we do not know anything about what the happy dog is doing. Therefore, it is not a sentence.

A clause is a sentence within a sentence. Example:


Sentences have different purposes:

Here are some sentences written in Basic English:

The sky is blue.

Today is Monday.

Tomorrow is Tuesday.

The baby is smiling.

Sheila is reading a book.

This is the road to take.

Read a book about the history of America.

There are beautiful flowers growing in the garden.

The cushions are new and I feel the comfort they give me.

They are playing in the grounds.


TYpes of sentences worksheet

James Joyce

James Augustine Aloysius Joyce () (2 February 1882 – 13 January 1941) was an Irish writer and poet of the modernist movement. He was from Dublin, Ireland. He wore an eyepatch, because of eye damage. He could not see well.

His books are written in a special style. At first he wrote in a way which describes very accurately how life is, in the short story collection called "Dubliners". In his next book, called "A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man", he started a new style. It is called stream of consciousness, which is writing all the thoughts that a character has. His work influenced many other writers in the 20th century.

Some books that Joyce wrote are:

James Joyce was the oldest of ten children. He went to a boarding school called Conglowes Wood College and later to Belvedere College. (College here refers to secondary school not to university as it can in the U.S.) Conglowes was run by Jesuit priests.

When he was very young, his family was rich. Later his father lost most of their money so he had to change schools and go to Belvedere College, which was cheaper.

Joyce met Nora Barnacle in 1904 and they began to have a long relationship until his death in 1941. The couple moved out of Dublin to Zürich in 1904, then to Trieste, Paris then back to Zürich. They married in 1931. They had a son and a daughter. Their daughter had a mental illness later in her life. Because he was smart, his parents wanted him to go to college. He studied modern languages at University College Dublin.

Joyce became a very famous writer after he published "Ulysses". He also began to have a lot of problems with his eyes and his family. But he completed his last book, "Finnegans Wake" by 1939. He died in Zurich.

Andes

The Andes are a mountain range along the western coast of South America.

They stretch over 7,000 km / 4,400 miles from the south of Argentina and Chile to the north of Colombia. They are also found in Peru, Bolivia and Ecuador.

The Amazon river system has its sources in the eastern flanks of the Andes.

The Andes are the longest exposed mountain range of the world, and the second-highest after the Himalayas. The Andes mountain range is the highest mountain range outside Asia.

Aconcagua, the highest peak, rises to 6,962 m (22,841 ft) above sea level. The top of Mount Chimborazo in the Ecuadorean Andes is the point on the Earth's surface most distant from its center. Mount Chimborazo is an inactive volcano in Ecuador, which last erupted over a thousand years ago.

The Andes has three sections:

The northern part has two parallel ranges. They are the "Cordillera Occidental" (western) and the "Cordillera Oriental" (eastern). The term "cordillera" comes from the Spanish word meaning 'rope'.

In Colombia, north to the border with Ecuador, the Andes split in three parallel ranges, western, central and eastern.

In the north the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta (Snowy Mountain Range of Saint Martha) is an isolated mountain range apart from the Andes chain that runs through Colombia. Reaching an altitude of 5,700 metres above sea level just 42 km from the Caribbean coast, the Sierra Nevada is the world's highest coastal range.
The western range of the eastern Cordillia Oriental is the only one which reaches Colombia .

The Andes range is about wide throughout its length, except in Bolivia where it is wide. The islands of the Dutch Caribbean Aruba, Bonaire, and Curaçao, which lie in the Caribbean Sea off the coast of Venezuela, represent the submerged tops of the northern edge of the Andes range.

The Andes are a Mesozoic–Tertiary orogenic belt of mountains along the Pacific Ring of Fire.

The Andes are the result of plate tectonics processes, caused by the subduction of oceanic crust beneath the South American continental plate. South America, like North America, has been moving west since the Cretaceous period. Thus the subduction of the Nazca Plate beneath the South American Plate formed the Andes. This was caused by the westward movement of South America.

The formation of the modern Andes began with the events of the Triassic and Jurassic when Pangea begun to break up and several rifts developed. It was during the Cretaceous period that the Andes began to take their present form, by the uplifting, faulting and folding of sedimentary and metamorphic rock of the ancient cratons to the east. The rise of the Andes has not been constant and different regions have had different degrees of tectonic stress, uplift, and weathering.

The climate in the Andes differs depending on which area, the altitude, and how close it is to the sea. The southern section is rainy and cool. The central Andes are dry. The northern Andes are normally rainy and warm, with an average temperature of in Colombia. The climate is known to change very much in rather short distances. Rainforests exist just miles away from the snow covered peak Cotopaxi. The mountains have a large effect on the temperatures of nearby areas. The snow line depends on the location. It is at between 4,500 and 4,800 m (14,800–15,800 ft) in the tropical Ecuadorian, Colombian, Venezuelan, and northern Peruvian Andes, going up to 4,800–5,200 m (15,800–17,060 ft) in the drier mountains of southern Peru south to northern Chile south to about 30°S, then going down to on Aconcagua at 32°S, at 40°S, at 50°S, and only in Tierra del Fuego at 55°S; from 50°S, many of the bigger glaciers go down to sea level.

The Andes of Chile and Argentina can be put in two climatic and glaciological zones; the Dry Andes and the Wet Andes.

Rainforests used to hold much of the northern Andes but are now reduced, especially in the Chocó and inter-Andean valleys of Colombia. Farming, deforestation, illegal crops, and population growth has done this. 

A direct opposite of the humid Andean slopes are the mostly dry Andean slopes in most of western Peru, Chile and Argentina. That area, and many Interandean Valles, normally have deciduous woodland, shrub and xeric (dry) vegetation, up to the mostly lifeless Atacama Desert.

About 30,000 species of vascular plants live in the Andes. About half of those are endemic to the region: it is a hotspot. The small tree "Cinchona pubescens" is a source of quinine used to treat malaria. It is found widely in the Andes as far south as Bolivia. Other important crops that came from the Andes are tobacco and potatoes. 

The high-altitude "Polylepis" forests and woodlands are found in the Andes of Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia and Chile. These trees are called Queñua, Yagual and other names. They grow at altitudes of above sea level. It is still unclear if the patchy distribution of these forests and woodlands is natural, or the result of clearing which began during the Incan time. Regardless, in modern times the clearance has had a faster pace, and the trees are now endangered. Some think as little as 10% of the original woodland is still here.

The Andes has a lot of wildlife. With almost 1,000 species, of which about 2/3 are endemic to the region, the Andes is the most important region in the world for amphibians.
Animal diversity in the Andes is high, with almost 600 species of mammals (13% endemic), more than 1,700 species of birds (1/3 endemic), more than 600 species of reptiles (45% endemic), and almost 400 species of fish (1/3 endemic).

The Vicuña and Guanaco can be found living in the Altiplano, while the closely related domesticated Llama and Alpaca are commonly kept by locals as pack animals and for their meat and wool. The nocturnal chinchillas, two threatened members of the rodent order, live in the Andes' alpine regions. The Andean Condor, the largest bird of its kind in the Western Hemisphere, lives throughout much of the Andes but mostly in very low numbers. Other animals found in the mostly open habitats of the high Andes are the huemul, cougar, and foxes in the genus "Pseudalopex". And for birds, some species of tinamous (they are members of the genus "Nothoprocta"), are the Andean Goose, Giant Coot, flamingos (mainly associated with hypersaline lakes), Lesser Rhea, Andean Flicker, Diademed Sandpiper-plover, miners, sierra-finches and diuca-finches.


Meal

A meal is a serving of food eaten by human beings. Meals usually include several different types of food, such as grains, vegetables, fruit, and in some cases, meat. Meals have different names by time they are taken or by the type of food that is eaten.

In North America and in Europe, people usually eat three meals a day. The morning meal is called breakfast. It usually includes foods made from grain (cereal, porridge, or bread), fruit (apple, banana, or an orange), and milk products (milk, yogurt, or cottage cheese). Many people drink coffee or tea with their breakfast.

Around noon, people eat their lunch. People who are working at jobs are given a break to eat their lunch. The lunch meal includes foods such as a sandwich, soup, vegetables, fruit, and milk. In some countries, such as Italy, people serve an alcoholic drink with lunch. In England, some people have a glass of beer with their lunch.

In the evening, people eat their supper or dinner. Dinners are different in different countries. Usually dinners include a "main course" such as roast beef, a grain (such as rice or pasta), a vegetable (such as carrots or cauliflower) and a dessert (called a "sweet" or "pudding" in England).

In some cases, a starter or appetizer is served before the dinner. Appetizers are a small serving of food such as olives, cheese, or bread. In many countries, people serve an alcoholic drink with dinner, such as wine or beer.


Leipzig

Leipzig (Upper Saxon: "Leibzsch" or "Leibz'sch") is the biggest city in the state of Saxony (eastern Germany). When Germany was divided into East and West Germany, Leipzig was one of the three biggest industrial cities in the East Germany.

Leipzig occupies and is still an industrial city. 510,651 people are living in Leipzig as of 29 February 2008.

Its Latin name is "Lipsia" and the German name "Leipzig" came from this name. Leipzig has a long history. Its name was first recorded as Leipzig Castle (Leipziger Burg) in 1015, and the official founding of the city occurred later in 1165. It was an economic center of , famous with its market (Leipziger Messe).

In 1409, was started. Theology was its major faculty. In 1519, Martin Luther had a discussion in Leipzig against . Reformation came to Leipzig in 1539 and the city people became Lutheran.

It is famous for , where Johann Sebastian Bach worked as music director (Kantor) from 1723 until his death in 1750.

In 1813 near Leipzig, the Battle of Leipzig was fought between the French army led by Napoleon Bonaparte and the allied armies of Austria, Prussia and Russia.

In 1839, the railway between Dresden and Leipzig was opened. It was the first long distance railroad in Germany.

As a result of industrialization, the number of people living in Leipzig grew during the 19th century. Before World War II, there were about 750,000 people in Leipzig.

After the war, Leipzig belonged to the part of Germany occupied by the Soviet Union, and later to East Germany.

In 1989, the took place in Leipzig. Every monday after a Christian mass in the the Leipzig people demonstrate for freedom to travel and democracy. These demonstrations became bigger and bigger and reached their peak on 23 October when 320,000 people came. The demonstrations are one of the things that lead to the end of communist dictatorship in East Germany.

Today, Leipzig is still known as a city of fairs, media and university, but is less important than it was before World War II.

Before World War II, Leipzig was a famous center of commerce (Leipzig exhibition) and industry. Now, there are big companies in Leipzig like Porsche, BMW, Siemens and DHL, as well as the .

With almost 511,000 people, Leipzig city proper is the 12th biggest city in Germany and the 2nd biggest in what was East Germany (DDR), smaller than East Berlin and bigger than Dresden. Leipzig urban has 567,000 people. The total population of Leipzig metropolitan area is 1,389,000.

Leipzig, Chemnitz, Dresden, Halle, and Zwickau form an area called the , which has about 3,500,000 people.

Leipzig has a university where famous people studied (e.g. Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, Edvard Grieg, Erich Kästner, Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, Gotthold Ephraim Lessing, Angela Merkel, Friedrich Nietzsche, Robert Schumann and Richard Wagner.) The (Central Station) is the biggest terminal station in Europe. It sees about 150,000 passengers each day. It is 293 meters wide.


1351

1351 was a common year.


Evil

Evil means something which is morally bad or wicked. It is the opposite of good. People may say that an action which hurts people or breaks certain rules such as the Ten Commandments is evil. A person or a group that does evil things may also be called evil.

A version of the Problem of evil, perhaps by Epicurus, goes as follows:

Another argument goes:

Arguments such as these are about the "logical" problem of evil. They attempt to show that the assumed propositions lead to a logical contradiction and so cannot all be correct.

A common response is that God can exist with and allow evil in order to achieve a greater good. Some philosophers accept that arguments such as "God allows evil in order to achieve the greater good of free will" are logically possible and thus solve the logical problem of evil. Since the aim is only to defeat the assertion that God and evil are "logically incompatible", even a highly implausible instance of God's coexistence with evil is sufficient for the purpose.

In theology, there is a question: "If there is a God, why does God let evil happen?" Some think that evil proves that there is not a God. Others think that God lets evil happen so that people can choose "not" to do evil.

Philosophies of science have approached the problem from the angle of empiricism. For logical positivism the issue with God is the lack of any independent method of verification. In their view, this makes the proposition "God exists", not true or false, but meaningless. A similar position points to the lack of any way the proposition might be falsified.

The study of good and evil in philosophy is called ethics. Ethics tries to explain why some actions are good and other actions are evil. It attempts to give all kinds of answers for how to tell evil from good. Christians believe that at the Second Coming of Christ, God will put an end to evil and the works of the Devil- see the end of the Book of Revelation. In movies or TV series evil people are often called villains. Political actions are sometimes viewed as evil such as authoritarianism, ableism, corruption or censorship. People disagree on why people do evil things. Religious people may think that it is the result of listening to an evil being such as the devil or sin. Others think it happens because of mental issues like anger, mental illness or revenge. Certain types of behavior are also often seen as universally evil, such as killing, lying or stealing. Sex crimes such as rape, hebephilia or pedophilia are also often seen as evil in basically every culture or society. 


1872

1872 was a leap year in the 19th century.





