Machine


A machine is a thing that is created by people to make work easier. It is a tool or invention which multiplies the effect of human effort. The machine produces a mechanical advantage.

Some machines have many parts that move. Examples are bicycles and clocks.

Some machines do not have parts that move. Examples are computers and telephones.

People have used machines since before there was history.

Often a machine will change one form of energy to another form of energy. Simple machines increase or change the direction of a force.

There are six 'simple machines'. They are:

Compound machines are made up of two or more simple machines.

Wario Land 4

Wario Land 4 is a video game released for the Game Boy Advance in 2001 as a part of the "Wario" video game series. It was later released for the Virtual Console for the Nintendo 3DS as an ambassador game in 2011

It was widely well received for it's exploration and escape type gameplay, and array of unique puzzles to tackle using Wario. Various items can affect Wario, from walking candles lighting him on fire, allowing him to break certain walls, or being turned into a spring after being hit by a hammer, allowing him to jump extraordinarily high, until he hits the ceiling.

In 2023, Pizza Tower was released, and is similar in gameplay to Warioland 4. This game swaps Wario for a chef named Peppino, and adds additional features like a display of Peppino's face, more levels, and better framerate. Various other games are currently in the works that mimic the play of Wario Land 4.

The main plot of this video game is to save a princess that has been turned into a cat and needs to be saved. Wario arrives and has to defeat a golden diva that has turned the princess in to a cat.

Mrs. Doubtfire

Mrs. Doubtfire is a 1993 American comedy-drama movie, based on the novel "Madame Doubtfire". It stars Robin Williams as Daniel Hillard, a divorced actor who disguises himself as a nanny since he desperately wants to be with his children.

Daniel Hillard (Robin Williams) is a voice actor who quits his job over a smoking issue in a cartoon. Then, he throws his son Chris a birthday party, which is against his wife Miranda (Sally Field)'s wishes because Chris received bad grades on his report card. After a long argument, Miranda asks Daniel for a divorce.

Daniel has 90 days to get a job and a place to live. He later discovers that his wife wants a nanny. So, he makes several calls to his wife, using fake names and different accents, to be hired. Eventually, he gets the job.

Daniel Hillard goes to his gay brother Frank (Harvey Fierstein) and his partner Jack (Scott Capurro) to get a makeover. The makeover makes him look like a woman, which is exactly what Daniel had hoped for.

Miranda is later seen dating Stu Dunmeyer (Pierce Brosnan). Disguised as Mrs. Doubtfire, Daniel babysits his three children. When he, his family, and Stu go to Bridges Restaurant to celebrate Miranda's birthday, Daniel must switch in and out of costume repeatedly since he is also eating dinner with Jonathan Lundy (Robert Prosky). While drunk, Daniel ends up mixing up the two outfits. Later, when he saves Stu from choking (disguised as Mrs. Doubtfire), Daniel's face mask comes off, exposing him. Horrified and angered, Miranda immediately leaves with the children while Stu is confused, but thanks Daniel for saving him.

Afterwards, Miranda is awarded full custody of the children while Daniel can only see them with supervision. After realizing how easier it was having Mrs. Doubtfire around, Miranda calls the court and allows Daniel to pick up his children after school and unsupervised.

In 2001, Bonnie Hunt began development on "Mrs. Doubtfire 2", but Williams disapproved and claimed that the script was scrapped multiple times. On April 17, 2014, production on "Mrs. Doubtfire 2" began. Williams' death in 2014, production on the sequel was cancelled. However, it is possible that Williams could have filmed scenes for the sequel when he was alive.

Super Mario 64 DS

Super Mario 64 DS is a 2004 platform game by Nintendo, and an enhanced remake of the 1996 video game "Super Mario 64" for the Nintendo 64. A cancelled sequel, "Super Mario 64 2" for the Nintendo 64DD (N64 Disk Drive) was planned, but it was cancelled, because of the commercial failure of the Disk Drive. Luigi was planned to appear in it too. It was first shown at E3 in 2004 and released for the Nintendo DS in Japan and in the United States in 2004, and in the PAL region in early 2005. The game received positive reviews and was the fifth best-selling video game on the weekly sales chart of the week of December 2004. It has rec room mini-games which are attained by catching rabbits and a multiplayer wireless VS. Mode, where 4 players can play to get the most stars and coins in 30 seconds, taken from 4 levels and there's three different colored Yoshis (red, blue, and yellow) the one with the card is Green Yoshi and other characters can get wings to fly. In the main game, only Mario can get wings.

The game begins with a letter from Princess Peach inviting Mario to come to her castle for a cake she has baked for him. Mario travels to her castle, and is followed by his younger, twin brother Luigi and Mario's greedy counterpart rival Wario. Luigi accidentally starts a fight and after entering the castle, the three disappear, and Lakitu, the game's camera operator, finds Yoshi to inform him of the disappearance.

Yoshi eats a rabbit and unlocks a door to the castle and explores the castle and its courses to find his friends. Scattered throughout the castle are paintings and secret walls, which act as portals to other worlds where Bowser's minions guard Power Stars. By recovering the stars and defeating bosses, Yoshi acquires keys to other areas of the castle and rooms holding his friends captive. He first defeats Goomboss to free Mario who assists him as the two continue searching the castle and collecting Power Stars. Mario then defeats King Boo to free Luigi who then uses his invisibility power to get to Wario's key by defeating Chief Chilly. During the course of the adventure, they tackle three obstacle courses leading to a battle with Bowser.

Defeating him the first two times earns them a key that opens other levels of the castle. After collecting 80 stars and solving the mystery of the endless stairs, Mario accesses the top room of the castle to defeat Bowser. Once he is defeated, Peach is freed and appears in front of the castle. To thank the four protagonists, she kisses Mario and bakes them the cake that she had originally promised. The game finishes with Mario, Luigi, Wario, Yoshi, and Peach standing at the front of the castle waving goodbye to the player as Lakitu films and then flies away.

Each of the characters have special abilities and their own strength and weaknesses.

Just like how there were many rumors of Luigi and Wario (who are now playable in this game) being playable in the original game, but did not appear, there were rumors of Waluigi being in this game, but he did not appear in either game. Yoshi makes an unplayable cameo appearance on the roof after the original game is finished giving Mario 100 lives and a sparkling triple jump.

Epistemology

Epistemology is the philosophy of knowledge. It seeks to answer the questions "What is knowledge?" and "How is knowledge acquired?"

Epistemologists are philosophers who are interested in questions such as whether it is possible to have knowledge, what kind of knowledge there is, and how people come to know things.

One of the first philosophers to make a clear statement on these questions was Xenophanes (570–470 BC). The following saying was, and still is, famous:
This is an early kind of skepticism.



