John Cleese


John Marwood Cleese (born 27 October 1939) is an English actor, comedian, producer and writer. He was born in Weston-super-Mare, England. He graduated from Downing College, Cambridge. Cleese has a degree in law. He was a member of the comedy team Monty Python. He starred in the television sitcom "Fawlty Towers" that he co-wrote with his first wife, Connie Booth, who played the role of Polly Sherman on the show. He plays the role of Q in some of the various James Bond movies.

Arthur Conan Doyle

Sir Arthur Conan Doyle (22 May 1859 – 7 July 1930) was a British doctor and author. He is well known because he wrote short stories about the detective Sherlock Holmes. He also wrote science fiction and historical stories. 

He became an agnostic by the time he left school. He studied medicine at Edinburgh University from 1876 to 1881. He wrote short stories in his spare time. In 1882, he started working as a doctor in Southsea. He carried on writing short stories while he waited for patients. His first Sherlock Holmes story that was published was "A Study in Scarlet".

Doyle's great gifts as a writer were story-telling and character. He created really memorable characters. Holmes' gift for deduction has been copied many times in fiction. The character was probably based on a doctor called Joseph Bell. Holmes himself and Watson were balanced by the evil genius Moriarty, one of the great villains in fiction.

After "A Study in Scarlet" came "The Sign of the Four", "The Valley of Fear" and "The Hound of the Baskervilles". The other Holmes stories were published in the "Strand Magazine". They were later collected together in five volumes, starting with "The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes".

Conan Doyle also wrote "The Lost World", published in 1912. In it, Professor Challenger and his companions travel to find a large plateau in South America where dinosaurs still live. 

Their children were: Mary Louise, Arthur Alleyne Kingsley (with Louise), Jean Lena Annette, Denis Percy Stewart, and Adrian Malcolm (with Jean). Doyle's wife Louisa died in 1906. After the death of his son Kingsley just before the end of the First World War, and the deaths of his brother Innes, his two brothers-in-law and his two nephews shortly after the war, Doyle sank into depression. He found solace supporting spiritualism and its attempts to find proof of existence beyond the grave. He was a member of the renowned supernatural organisation The Ghost Club.


Muslims

A Muslim is a person who believes in Islam, an Abrahamic monotheistic religion. Islam is a monotheistic religion from Abrahamic beginnings. Muslims believe the Qur'an is a book of the words that the God of Abraham (or Allah) gave to the Prophet Muhammad. Alongside the Qur'an, Muslims also believe in previous revelations of God, such as the "Tawrat" (Torah), the "Zabur" (Psalms), the "Injeel" (Gospel), the "Scrolls of Abraham", and the "Scrolls of Moses". Muslims believe human beings will be judged for how they lived on the Day of Judgement by Allah. Muslim men are usually circumcised.

Muhammad united Arabia into a single Muslim polity, with the Qur'an forming the basis of Islamic religious belief. Muslim conquests following Muhammad's death led to the creation of the Arab caliphates, occupying a vast geographical area. The Islamic conquests culminated in the Arab Empire being established across three continents (Asia, Africa, and Europe). Today, there are about 1.57 billion Muslims in the world, which is about 1 person in every 4 people. The Muslim population continues to grow.



