KNIL


KNIL is the abbreviation for a Dutch army. This army was in what is now called Indonesia. The official name is "Koninklijk Nederlandsch-Indisch Leger" ("Royal Dutch-East Indies Army")

Indonesia was a Dutch colony from 1800 to 1949. It was then called "Nederlandsch Indië" (Dutch East Indies). The KNIL taskforce was sent there to maintain order.

When Indonesia declared itself independent in 1945 the Dutch fought a war to keep the colony. This war was won by the Indonesians. The Dutch government accepted Indonesia's independence in 1949, and the KNIL ceased to exist.

Bronbeek

Bronbeek is a former Royal palace in Arnhem, the Netherlands. It is now a museum and a home for elderly soldiers.

Bronbeek was built early 19th century. In 1845 the Dutch King William III bought Bronbeek. He donated it to the Dutch state in 1859. William wanted it to be a home for disabled KNIL soldiers. The inhabitants took their collections of 'souvenirs' with them. This turned into a museum about the Dutch East Indies.

In 2004 50 former soldiers have their home in Bronbeek.

David Bowie

David Robert Jones OAL (8 January 1947 – 10 January 2016), known professionally by his stage name David Bowie, was an English rock musician and actor.

Bowie was born on 8 January 1947 in 40 Stansfield Road, Brixton, London.He grew up in Bromley, Kent. He played the saxophone. He was a singer in London blues bands. He used the alias "David Bowie" because "David Jones" sounded too much like Davy Jones (of The Monkees). He took the name "Bowie" from Jim Bowie, who invented the Bowie knife.

Bowie became known to the public with the 1969 song "Space Oddity". This single was released when man first landed on the moon. The song's title is based on the movie "" by Stanley Kubrick. In 1970, Bowie won an Ivor Novello Award for "Space Oddity".

Bowie's album "The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from Mars" was released in 1972. It is one of his best-known albums. As a result of his performance, Bowie became a leader of glam rock.

Ziggy Stardust became Bowie's second personality (alter ego). For a press conference, he would show up as Ziggy. Bowie let Ziggy Stardust come to an end during a live concert in the Hammersmith Odeon theatre on 3 July 1973. In 1983, this show was released as movie and soundtrack ("Ziggy Stardust – The Motion Picture"). Bowie also produced Lou Reed's "Transformer". He released "Aladdin Sane" (his first number one album in the United Kingdom).

In 1974, after releasing the album "Diamond Dogs", Bowie settled in Los Angeles. He experimented with drugs, especially cocaine. In 1975, "Fame" (from the "Young Americans" album) a song co-written with John Lennon, was number 1 on the United States charts. Bowie played an alien in the movie "The Man Who Fell To Earth". A new second personality was "The Thin White Duke". This was introduced on the "Station to Station" album in 1976. The song "Golden Years" scored high in the pop charts. In 2003, the album was ranked number 323 on "Rolling Stone" magazine's list of the 500 greatest albums of all time.

After releasing "Station to Station", Bowie moved to Berlin. He was interested in German music. He wanted to end his drug abuse. In Berlin, he started to work with producer Tony Visconti and with Brian Eno, the "king of oblique strategies". Bowie was a producer for Iggy Pop too. The "Berlin Trilogy Albums" are "Low" (1977), "Heroes" (1977) and "Lodger" (1979), although only "Heroes" was recorded entirely in Berlin.

Bowie left Berlin in 1980. In 1980 he recorded and released the album "Scary Monsters And Super Creeps", featuring the United Kingdom number 1 single "Ashes To Ashes". In 1981, he had a big hit with "Under Pressure", together with Queen: it peaked at number 1 on United Kingdom charts. In 1983, Bowie released "Let's Dance", his biggest selling album. The title track peaked at number 1 in the United Kingdom and the United States Of America.

In 1984, Bowie won a Brit Award as Best Male Artist. In 1985, he won a Grammy Award for Best Video (Short Form). Yet in 1985, David Bowie and Mick Jagger released the charity single "Dancing In The Street". In 1986, Bowie released the hit-single "Absolute Beginners".

In 1989, Bowie formed the band Tin Machine. This was his first real band since the 1970s. With this band, Bowie recorded three albums: "Tin Machine" (1989), "Tin Machine II" (1991) and "Oy Vey, Baby" (1992).

By the 1990s, Bowie had become more interested in soul, jazz and hip hop. This was first noticed on the album "Black Tie, White Noise".

Bowie was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame on 17 January 1996.

In 2013, after a ten years hiatus, Bowie released his twenty-fourth album, "The Next Day". In 2014, he was nominated for Best Rock Album at the Grammy Awards and won a Brit Award for Best Male Artist. 

His last album, "Blackstar", was released on 8 January 2016. That was his 69th birthday and two days before his death. After Bowie's death, "Blackstar" reached number one in the United Kingdom and in the United States: it was the only Bowie album to peak at number one in the United States. In 2017 "Blackstar" won 5 Grammy Awards. "Blackstar" also won a Brit Award for the Best Album and David Bowie also won a Brit Award for Best Male Artist.

Bowie married Mary Angela Barnett in 1970. Their son, Duncan Jones was born in 1971. The couple divorced in 1980. Bowie married Iman in 1992. The couple's daughter, Alexandria Jones, was born in 2000.

On 10 January 2016 after an 18-month battle with liver cancer, Bowie died in Manhattan, New York City, two days after his 69th birthday. His remains were later cremated on 14 January in a private ceremony in New York.

Bowie covered many genres, including art rock, hard rock, glam rock, alternative rock, krautrock, protopunk, post-punk, electronica, Blue-eyed soul, new wave, industrial, techno, jazz, dance music, funk, disco, experimental rock, folk, instrumental, ambient and house.


Benito Mussolini

Benito Amilcare Andrea Mussolini KSMOM GCTE (29 July 1883 – 28 April 1945) was an Italian politician and journalist who served as Prime Minister of Italy from 1922 to 1943. He also was the leader of the National Fascist Party.

Benito Mussolini was named after Benito Juarez, a Mexican opponent of the political power of the Roman Catholic Church, by his anticlerical (a person who opposes the political interference of the Roman Catholic Church in secular affairs) father. Mussolini's father was a blacksmith. Before being involved in politics, Mussolini was a newspaper editor (where he learned all his propaganda skills) and elementary school teacher.

At first, Mussolini was a socialist, but when he wanted Italy to join the First World War, he was thrown out of the socialist party. He 'invented' a new ideology, Fascism, much out of Nationalist and Conservative views.

In 1922, he took power by having a large group of men, "Black Shirts," march on Rome and threaten to take over the government. King Vittorio Emanuele III gave in, allowed him to form a government, and made him prime minister. In the following five years, he gained power, and in 1927 created the OVRA, his personal secret police force. Using the agency to arrest, scare, or murder people against his regime, Mussolini was dictator of Italy by the end of 1927. Only the King and his own Fascist party could challenge his power.

Mussolini's form of Fascism, "Italian Fascism"- unlike Nazism, the racist ideology that Adolf Hitler followed- was different and less destructive than Hitler's. Although a believer in the superiority of the Italian nation and national unity, Mussolini, unlike Hitler, is quoted "Race? It is a feeling, not a reality. Nothing will ever make me believe that biologically pure races can be shown to exist today".

Mussolini wanted Italy to become a new Roman Empire. In 1923, he attacked the island of Corfu, and in 1924, he occupied the city state of Fiume. In 1935, he attacked the African country Abyssinia (now called Ethiopia). His forces occupied it in 1936. Italy was thrown out of the League of Nations because of this aggression. In 1939, he occupied the country Albania. In 1936, Mussolini signed an alliance with Adolf Hitler, the dictator of Germany.

In 1940, he sent Italy into the Second World War on the side of the Axis countries. Mussolini attacked Greece, but he failed to conquer it. In 1943, the Allies landed in Southern Italy. The Fascist party and King Vittorio Emanuel III deposed Mussolini and put him in jail, but he was set free by the Germans, who made him ruler of the Italian Social Republic puppet state which was in a small part of Central Italy. When the war was almost over, Mussolini tried to escape to Switzerland with his mistress, Clara Petacci, but they were both captured and shot by partisans. Mussolini's dead body was hanged upside-down, together with his mistress and some of Mussolini's helpers, on a pole at a gas station in the village of Milan, which is near the border between Italy and Switzerland.

After the war, several Neo-Fascist movements have had success in Italy, the most important being the Movimento Sociale Italiano. His granddaughter Alessandra Mussolini has outspoken views similar to Fascism. 

Mussolini's legacy is complex; he played a significant role in Italian history, but his association with fascism and authoritarianism has left a controversial mark. His policies had lasting effects, but they were often accompanied by suppression of dissent and human rights abuses.


Puppet state

A puppet state is a country that is officially independent but is not so in practice. Puppet governments are usually kept in power by military force provided by an occupying country and are strongly controlled. Puppet states are generally not internationally recognized by most countries, except by the countries which control them and by a few other countries.

It is a biased term and is used in criticizing the government of the alleged puppet state.


Banana republic

A "banana republic" is a politically unstable country whose economy depends on the export of one product in limited supply, such as agricultural products like bananas or minerals. A banana republic has social classes that are divided by wealth. These include a large, poor working class and a small ruling class (elite) made up of the businessmen, politicians, and the military. The ruling class controls and exploits the country's economy. 

Characteristics of a Banana Republic

The way the phrase banana republic is used has evolved since it was introduced more than a century ago. It is no longer limited to countries in Central America or the tropics. Key characteristics of a banana republic in the modern world include:

Examples of Banana Republics

In the modern world, whether or not a country could accurately be described as a banana republic government is a matter of opinion. A number of countries have been described as banana republics at some point.


A country that at some point might exhibit all of the characteristics of a banana republic could change, which would mean that the term would no longer apply. The fact that someone refers to a country as a banana republic does not mean that the country really is one. The phrase is a derogatory description rather than an actual type of government.


Banana Republic

Banana Republic is a clothing and accessories retailer. The retailer is owned by Gap Inc.. The restaurant was created by both Mel and Patricia Ziegler in 1978. The first store they opened was a two-store safari and travel themed clothing company. Banana Republic was acquired by The Gap, Inc. in 1983 and was rebranded as a mainstream luxury clothing retailer.

Since the end of Q1 2011, there are 642 stores in operation in 32 countries, shipped to 20 countries through company owned websites, and they had the ability to ship to more than 50 countries through a 3rd party.


Kingdom of Holland

The Kingdom of Holland was a country that existed from 1806 to 1810. It was in Central and North Netherlands and East Frisia in Germany. It was a puppet state created by France. The king of Holland was Louis Bonaparte.


Victor Emmanuel III of Italy

Victor Emmanuel III (11 November 1869 – 28 December 1947) was king of Italy from 29 July 1900 to 9 May 1946. He was the son and successor of King Umberto I. He was a member of the House of Savoy.

Victor was born in Naples. His mother was Queen Margherita of Savoy. He became king in 1900, at age 31, after his father was killed by Gaetano Bresci.

After World War I, Benito Mussolini started the March on Rome and Victor Emmanuel III supported him. Mussolini became the Prime Minister and dictator. Because people said Victor Emmanuel III had worked together with Mussolini too much, Italy became a republic in 1946.

His Majesty" The King of the Albanians


Alter ego

An alter ego (from Latin, "other I") is another self — a second personality within a person. It is also called leading a double life. The term "alter ego" was first used in the 19th century. It was inventory by psychologists in talking about dissociative identity disorder.

For example, in "The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde", Mr. Hyde was Dr. Jekyll's evil alter ego (same person, different personalities).

The term is also used in popular fiction, like comic books, for the secret identity of a superhero, vigilante, or crimefighter. The character would do this so people won't know that he or she is fighting crime. Examples of characters using alter egos include:


Sometimes an artist uses an alter ego, like:


Ziggy Stardust

Ziggy Stardust is a fictional character. Ziggy was created and used by David Bowie, from 1970 to 1973.

Bowie used Ziggy Stardust as a second personality (alter ego). Ziggy appeared to be neither male nor female.

Ziggy's band was The Spiders From Mars. They recorded a couple of albums:

Ziggy's 'life' came to an end in a live concert at Hammersmith Odeon, on July 3, 1973. This show was in 1983 released in a movie: "Ziggy Stardust - The Motion Picture". A 30th anniversary edition was released in 2003.

The Spiders from Mars

The Spiders from Mars was a Rock band from 1970 to 1973. It was a project from David Bowie. Bowie himself was the lead-singer. He created a secondary personality (alter ego) for this purpose: Ziggy Stardust. Ziggy's 'life' came to an end in a live concert at Hammersmith Odeon, on July 3, 1973. This show was in 1983 released in a movie: Ziggy Stardust - The Motion Picture. A re-release of this movie was in 2003: 30th Anniversary Edition.

Ziggy Stardust and The Spiders from Mars recorded a couple of albums:





