Michael Schumacher


Michael Schumacher (born 3 January 1969 in Hürth, near Cologne) is a German Formula 1 driver. He is widely considered the greatest Formula 1 driver of all time. He has won seven world championship titles and has the most Grand Prix victories in the world. This champion, nicknamed "campionissimo" by Italian fans of Ferrari, is considered the most popular German personality in the world. Michael's younger brother Ralf is also a Formula 1 driver. When he was small, his father gave him a little kart. It had a small motor bike engine in it. He started getting interest from that time.

In 1984 Michael won the German Kart Championship and went on to win many more. In 1987 he won the German and European Kart Championship. Schumacher signed up with Will Weber's Formula 3 race team and won the 1990 championship.

He made his debut in the Belgian Grand Prix on 25 August. He impressed many fans as he qualified 7th on a track where he had never previously(before) driven with an inferior car. At the start he burnt the clutch and retired.

He was quickly snapped up by Benetton and finished in 5th place at the Italian Grand Prix.
He followed it up with 6th in both Portugal and at the then new Circuit de Catalunya in Spain. He then crashed out in Japan and spun in the torrential rain at the season finale in Australia. In the 6 races he entered, he scored 4 points and 14th in the championship.

He started the season off well with 4th in South Africa followed by his maiden podium finish in 3rd at the Mexican Grand Prix. He followed it up with another 3rd place in Brazil and 2nd in Spain. In San Marino he crashed out, then came 4th in Monaco and 2nd in Canada. He spun off in the rain at the French Grand Prix and finished 4th in Britain and 3rd in Germany. He retired again in Hungary but at Spa Francorchamps, where he made his debut, he won a rain-affected race. He came 3rd in Italy, 7th in Portugal, retired in Japan and came 2nd in Australia. He finished the season in 3rd place overall (in front of Senna) with a total of 53 points.

Williams dominated the season with its active suspension, and Benetton quickly made a similar one to match Williams. Schumacher won the Portuguese Grand Prix, and finished 9 times on the podium. However, with 7 retirements, he failed to finish 3rd in the championship.

In 2010 Schumacher returned to F1 with the Mercedes team. In total he spent 3 years with the team in which he scored 1 pole in Monaco (but he was stripped of it due to a penalty), 1 fastest lap, and 1 podium. He was replaced by Lewis Hamilton for the 2013 season and retired from Formula One.

 Season in progress.

As of the end of the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, Michael Schumacher holds the following Formula One records:

In December 2013, Schumacher sustained a head injury after a skiing accident in France.

Yokohama

Yokohama is the capital of Kanagawa Prefecture in the Kantō region. Yokohama is a neighbor city of Tokyo. It has been the second largest city of Japan since the 1980s. 

Yokohama has an international trade seaport. It is the largest port in Japan. Many cars and machinery are exported from the port. The downtown area is around the port. Today, the area of Yokohama city includes its former suburb areas like Hodogaya or Totsuka.

In Minato Mirai, there are a lot of places for sightseeing. For example, there are amusement parks and shopping malls.

Yokohama was an entrance for foreign cultures for a long time. Still today Yokohama has the largest Chinatown in Japan.

The airports nearest to Yokohama are Tokyo International Airport and Narita International Airport. 

Many educational institutes are located in Yokohama, including Yokohama National University and Yokohama City University.

The Yokohama port was created in the middle of the 19th century for foreigners. It was five ports opened to foreign countries who demanded that Japan open its ports. And Yokohama was the nearest port to Tokyo, which was then called "Edo".
In the Edo period, "Hodogaya-juku" was one of the fifty-three shogunate-maintained waystations ("shuku-eki") along the Tōkaidō road which connected Edo and Kyoto. Two other Tōkaidō rest stops are within the boundaries of modern Yokohama—in Kanagawa ward and Totsuka ward.






