Folk hero


A folk hero is a person, who may or may not have existed, and is famous and well liked by people, or people of a certain country. Usually it is someone who helped the common people or fought against the authorities, such as a bad king. People tells stories about folk heroes, most of their stories have been passed down orally, and changed to fit the situations. They usually have a special skill or trait of some sort (Paul Bunyan is very short).

Some famous folk heroes are:


Seth Green

Seth Benjamin Green (born Seth Benjamin Gesshel-Green; February 8, 1974) is an American actor, comedian, and voice actor. He became famous in the late 1990s after appearing in many teen movies. His most notable roles include Scott Evil in the "Austin Powers" series of movies, Chris Griffin on the television series "Family Guy", Patrick Wisely in "", Dan Mott in "Without a Paddle" and Daniel "Oz" Osborne on the series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", in which he is cast as Willow Rosenberg's werewolf boyfriend. Green is also the creator of Adult Swim's "Robot Chicken".

Ashton Kutcher

Ashton Christopher Kutcher (February 7, 1978), is an American actor, producer and former model. He became well known when he played Michael Kelso on "That '70s Show". In 2003, Kutcher produced and starred in his own television series, "Punk'd." He was the host of the series.

In May 2011, Kutcher was announced as Charlie Sheen's replacement on the series "Two and a Half Men". Kutcher's contract was for one year. The contract is believed to be worth nearly $20 million.

Kutcher was born in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. He is the son of Diane (née Finnegan), a Procter & Gamble employee, and Larry M. Kutcher, a factory worker. His father is of Bohemian (Czech) ancestry and his mother is of Irish, German, and Bohemian ancestry. Kutcher was raised in a conservative Roman Catholic family, Kutcher has a twin brother, Michael, who had a heart transplant when the brothers were young children. Kutcher's twin brother also has cerebral palsy.

Kutcher is a student of Kabbalah.

In 2006, "People" magazine ranked him third in its yearly list of "The Sexiest Men Alive".

In 2003, Kutcher started a relationship with older actress Demi Moore. They married in 2005. The couple separated in 2011. The couple's divorce was finalized in November 2013. Kutcher has been in a relationship with Mila Kunis since April 2012. The couple became engaged in February 2014. Their daughter was born in September 2014. Kunis married Kutcher in July 2015. Kutcher and Kunis gave birth to a son in November 2016.

Kutcher is in advertisements for Nikon cameras. In July 2011, Brazilian fashion label Colcci hired Kutcher and Alessandra Ambrosio to be in a denim advertisement.

On April 16, 2009, Kutcher became the first user of Twitter to have more than 1,000,000 followers.

Linus Torvalds

Linus Benedict Torvalds ( , ; born 28 December 1969) is a Finnish-American software engineer.

His parents named him after Linus Pauling. He studied at the University of Helsinki from 1988 to 1996. He became famous because of the success of his operating system, Linux. He started making this system as a student project in 1991. He based it on the popular UNIX operating system. Today, Linux has become the most popular free operating system.

Linus is the leader of the Linux project, which has many members around the world. He is the one person who can make decisions about changes or future development on the operating system. He also made the version control system Git. He now lives with his family in the United States. 

Linus chose the penguin to be the logo of Linux. A picture of a penguin called Tux appears on many desktop computers that run Linux.


Thomas Jefferson

Thomas Jefferson (April 13, 1743 – July 4, 1826) was the third president of the United States. Jefferson wrote the Declaration of Independence, which he and 55 other Founding Fathers signed. He also wrote the Statute of Religious Freedom.

Jefferson was also a plantation owner. He had many slaves. He freed several people in the Hemings family.

Jefferson, the third of ten children, was born on April 13, 1743 in Shadwell, Virginia into a planter family. His parents were Peter and Jane Jefferson. He had six sisters and three brothers. At 9 years old, Thomas Jefferson began studying Latin, Greek, and French; he also learned to ride horses, with highest honors. He went on to become a lawyer.

In January 1772, Jefferson married Martha Wayles Skelton, with whom he had 6 children.

Jefferson wanted the Thirteen Colonies to be free from Great Britain. Jefferson quickly assumed a leadership rule among like-minded men of his generation. He was a member of the Second Continental Congress. He was chosen to be in the group of officials that wrote the Declaration of Independence and was its main writer.

He was minister to France from 1785 to 1789.

He was selected by George Washington as the first Secretary of State. Jefferson thought that the federal government should be small. He had the opposite view of Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Hamilton about the federal government. Together with James Madison in 1792, he founded a party to oppose Hamilton and the Federalist Party. This party was the Democratic-Republican Party. One fraction of the party became the modern-day Democratic Party.

Jefferson ran for president against John Adams. He got the second highest number of votes and, as was the law at the time, became vice-president.

Jefferson ran again as the Democratic-Republican candidate in 1800 and won. He was elected again in 1804. Jefferson made the Louisiana Purchase, which doubled the size of the United States.

He sent the Lewis and Clark Expedition to explore the land the United States got by the Louisiana Purchase. Jefferson had to deal with the threat of war during his second term. Great Britain and France were at war for almost all of his time as president. Each side did things that could have made the United States enter the war. Jefferson worked hard to keep the United States out of the war and not be a part of it.

Jefferson passed the Embargo Act of 1807, which made it illegal for the United States to trade with other countries. This upheld his isolationist policy, or separation from the rest of the world.

Jefferson started the University of Virginia.

At Monticello, Jefferson had several children with an enslaved woman named Sally Hemings. When his oldest daughter's husband was disowned, she and her children came to live at Monticello too.

When the British burned Washington D.C. during the War of 1812 many books in the Library of Congress were burned. Jefferson sold his own personal library to replace the lost books.

He died on July 4, 1826 from pneumonia complicated by uremia, on the 50th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence. The 2nd president of the United States, John Adams died on the same day, just a few hours later.

There is a Thomas Jefferson Memorial near the National Mall in Washington, D.C. Jefferson is one of the four presidents on Mount Rushmore in South Dakota. Also, visitors can visit his home at the Monticello near Charlottesville, Virginia.


Tahiti

Tahiti is an island in the southern Pacific Ocean. It is part of the French Polynesia. Papeete is the capital and largest city. Other major cities are Faaa and Mahina. About 169 674 people live there (2002). The languages that are spoken in Tahiti are French and Tahitian which are both official. In Tahiti (in the Society group) – was claimed by the French in 1768. The Faaa International Airport is the main way of transportation on the island. Air Tahiti Nui is the main plane of the airport which flies to Los Angeles and Paris. Other planes fly to Hawaii, Japan, and other islands in the Pacific Ocean. Air Tahiti flies to other islands in French Polynesia such as Bora Bora.Coconut trees grow along the coast of Tahiti.

Geneva (canton)

Geneva is a canton in Switzerland. The capital of the canton is Geneva City.

The French name is "Genève", The German name is "Genf", in Italian it is "Ginevra".

Geneva is the seat of many institutions of the United Nations. It has about 186.000 inhabitants and a very old university. About 960.000 people live in the urban area. Some of the urban area is in France. Only Zürich has more inhabitants in Switzerland.

In 1815, the city-state of Geneva became a part of Switzerland. It had at one time been the capital of the Kingdom of Burgundy.

The first traces of human civilization in Geneva, discovered on the shores of Lake Geneva , date from around 3000 BC. The hill of the Old City, however, was not inhabited until 1000 BC. Later, when Rome conquered Geneva, it was defended by a small Celtic tribe. In 58 BC, Julius Caesar drove off an attack by the Helvetii. At the height of the Roman Empire, around 400 AD, Geneva was granted its own bishop.

Geneva does not have any districts. There are 45 municipalities in the canton:

John Heinz

Henry John Heinz III (October 23, 1938 – April 4, 1991) was an American politician from Pennsylvania and the great-grandson of the founder of H. J. Heinz Company. He was a member of the United States House of Representatives from 1971 to 1977 and was a US senator from 1977 to 1991. He was killed in a plane crash in 1991.

Heinz married Teresa Simões-Ferreira on February 5, 1966 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The couple had three sons together: H. John Heinz IV, André, and Christopher.

A number of places are named after Heinz, including:

The Tempest

The Tempest is one of William Shakespeare's last comedies. It tells the story of a wizard who drives a ship to the island he lives on, in order to undo something that happened to him in the past. Unlike most of Shakespeare's plays, it does not appear to be based on an earlier story. 

The play is set on an island where a magician called Prospero lives with his daughter Miranda. The only company is Ariel, a spirit that Prospero rescued, and Caliban, a monster that Prospero has enslaved. Prospero conjures a storm that drives a ship to the island. Prospero explains to Miranda that there are men on board the ship who have done wrong against him. He used to be the Duke of Milan but was overthrown by his brother Antonio, with the help of Alonso, the King of Naples. Prospero and Miranda were cast out to sea in a boat, which took them to the island. Miranda was only a baby at the time, and can only remember living on the island.

The passengers of the ship escape onto the island and are separated into groups. Alonso and his son Ferdinand both think each other is dead. Alonso is left with his brother Sebastian, Antonio and his kindly advisor Gonzalo. Ferdinand meets Miranda and falls in love. Prospero tests Ferdinand to see if he is worthy enough for his daughter, and decides that he is. Antonio and Sebastian plot to kill Alonso and Gonzalo, but are stopped by Ariel. Meanwhile, Caliban meets two servants, Trinculo and Stephano. He persuades them to overthrow Prospero so that they can rule the island. Prospero stops them by summoning goblins and hounds to chase them away.

Ariel transforms into a fearsome bird-like creature and confronts Antonio, Alonso and Sebastian, telling them they should be sorry for overthrowing Prospero. They flee and eventually find Prospero. He announces that he will forgive everyone who plotted against him (including Caliban), give up magic and return to Milan. They react in different ways; Alonso is sorry for what he has done, while Antonio thinks the forgiveness is "unnatural". It is revealed that the ship and all the passengers survived the "shipwreck". Prospero sets Ariel free, and he and Miranda join everyone else in heading off back to Italy.


The 1956 science fiction film "Forbidden Planet" set the story on a planet in space, Altair IV, instead of an island.

Professor Morbius (Walter Pidgeon) and his daughter Altaira (Anne Francis) are the Prospero and Miranda figures (both Prospero and Morbius having harnessed the mighty forces that inhabit their new homes). Ariel is represented by the helpful Robbie the Robot, while Sycorax is replaced with the powerful race of the Krell. Caliban is represented by the dangerous and invisible "monster from the id", a projection of Morbius' psyche born from the Krell technology instead of Sycorax's womb.

Calendar

A calendar is a tool for organizing days. People use calendars to say when something happened, and for planning things that have not happened yet. The calendar gives the days names and numbers, called calendar dates. The "dates" are usually made based on how things in the sky seem to move. The year and month are based on motions of the Sun and moon. By knowing what day something happened or will happen, people have an easier life. Since the beginning of history, knowing when the seasons would start for crops was very important for farmers.

Calendar systems have a beginning time or era. The calendar era is often a religion-based event, such as the birth of Jesus, but it may be a political event such as a coronation or the founding of a state. Dates that are counted from the coronation are called "regnal".

The three principal calendars most used today are the Gregorian, Hebrew, and Islamic calendars. Other calendar systems from many different parts of the world are also used.

Calendars are based on three natural things:


The Earth turns all the way around its axis about 24 hours. It is called the Solar Day. Days of most calendars are strongly based on the Solar Day.

The Moon turns all the way around the Earth about 29 days, 12 hours, 44 minutes and 2 seconds. Months of some calendars are still strongly based on the Moon. These are called Lunar calendars, which lasts about 354-355 days. Solar calendars ignore the moon, and depend entirely on the Sun.

The Earth goes all the way around the Sun in about 365 days, 5 hours, 48 minutes and 46 seconds. This is called the Solar year. Years of most calendars are strongly based on the Solar year.



