Science Olympiad


The Science Olympiad is a nationwide event in the United States that tests students' knowledge in science and technology. It started in 1982, and takes place every year.

Science Olympiad consists of twenty three events testing students in middle and high school on different science topics, such as astronomy and chemistry.

Bookstore

A bookstore is a store that sells books, and where people can buy them. A used bookstore or second-hand bookshop sells and often buys used books.

Some modern bookstore combine the books (including digital books) and coffee or CDs.


Lemonade

Lemonade is a drink made with water, lemons or lemon juice, and sugar. 

There are two main types: cloudy, and clear, each known simply as "lemonade" in their home countries. Cloudy lemonade, generally found in North America and India, is a traditionally homemade drink made with lemon juice, water, and sweetened with cane sugar or honey. Clear lemonade is a lemon, or lemon-lime flavored, carbonated soft drink. This type is common in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia, and New Zealand.

To make 8 cups of lemonade, mix the juice of 8 freshly squeezed lemons with 1/2 a cup of sugar and 5 cups of water and serve over ice cubes. A diced (cut up) lemon or lime can also be added to mixture. The sugar is sometimes replaced by maple syrup.

Pink lemonade can be made by adding some grenadine or another red juice, or using pink lemons. Some pink lemonades are lightly carbonated, including French brand Lorina lemonade.

In the United Kingdom, Australia, Switzerland, and New Zealand, the term 'lemonade' refers to a clear, carbonated, sweet lemon-flavored soft drink. In India it is commonly referred to as 'Nimbu paani' meaning "lemon water" or 'Shikanji'. It is sold by street vendors, especially in North India.

Lemonade stands are a small shops made by kids especially in the U.S. Children sell it to adults to learn the basics of business and to earn some money. 

Melting

Melting is the process of changing something from a solid into a liquid (like metal into liquid metal). It is the opposite of freezing. The temperature at which something begins to melt is called its melting point. When an object is heated, the object's particles begin to move faster and faster until the structured particles are freed. Now it is a liquid. It is a solid that is turning into a liquid. Ice takes longer to melt it is in cold water, because the water is near the melting point. It melts more quickly in warm water, far from the melting point.


September 11

The terms "September 11" and "9/11" have been used by the media to refer to the September 11, 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center and The Pentagon in the United States of America.













