Neil Armstrong


Neil Alden Armstrong (August 5, 1930 – August 25, 2012) was an American astronaut and engineer and is known as the first person to walk on the moon. On July 20, 1969, Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin landed on the moon in a small spacecraft that had been sent to the moon using the Saturn V rocket. The mission was called Apollo 11. They both walked on the moon, and millions of people watched and heard this event on live television. 

He earned a BSc degree in Aeronautical Engineering from the Purdue University in 1955 and an MSc degree in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Southern California. In 1970 he received an Honorary Doctorate of Engineering from the Purdue University. In 1971 he became professor of aerospace engineering at the University of Cincinnati. He joined the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, then known as the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, serving as a civilian test pilot at Edwards Air Force Base, Lancaster, Calif.

In 2005, he received the Honorary Doctorate of letters from the University of Southern California. The "Houston Chronicle" newspaper reported on October 1, 2006, that Australian computer programmer Peter Shann Ford found the missing "a" from Armstrong's famous first words on the Moon. Ford reported that he downloaded the audio recording from a NASA web site and analyzed it using editing software originally intended for use with hearing disabled people. Armstrong is said to have been pleased with Ford's finding of the missing "a".

Prior to being an astronaut, Armstrong was called to Pensacola Naval Air Station in Florida in 1949 before he could complete his degree. There he earned his pilots wings at 20 years of age, making him the youngest flyer in his squadron. While studying for his aeronautical engineering degree, the Korean War broke out in 1950, in which he flew 78 combat missions. His plane was shot down once and he was also awarded 3 Air Medals. Later, he became a skilful test pilot, flying right to the atmosphere’s edge, at , in the experimental rocket powered aircraft the X-15. 
Armstrong went on his first mission into space on the 16th of March 1966, in the spacecraft Gemini 8, as the command pilot. He docked the Gemini 8 successfully with an Agena target craft that was in orbit already. Although the docking was smooth enough, while the spacecrafts orbited together, they started to roll and pitch. Armstrong then managed to undock the Gemini, and regained control of the spacecraft by using the retro rockets. However, this resulted in the astronauts having to make an emergency landing into the Pacific Ocean. Following the fatal explosion of the space shuttle "Challenger" in January 1986, Armstrong was appointed deputy chief of the presidential commission set up to investigate the disaster.

His most famous quote is: "That's one small step for (a) man, one giant leap for mankind. "

He spoke those words when he set his foot on the moon. He wanted to say "That's one small step for "a" man…", but for some reason the "a" was never spoken. Armstrong thought he had said it. Listening to the audio shows that the "for" runs on smoothly, giving no time for "a" to be spoken. Armstrong prefers written quotations to include the "a" in parentheses.

Armstrong was married to Janet Shearon from 1956 until they divorced in 1994, they had three children; Mark, Eric, and Karen. Lastly he married Carol Held Knight from 1994 until his death in 2012.

Some years after returning from the Moon, he visited the 2,000 year-old King Herod's Temple Mount in the city of Jerusalem. While he was there, Neil Armstrong said it was more exciting to step on the stone steps where Jesus Christ walked than even stepping on the Moon. 

His biography describes him as a deist.

Armstrong died on the morning of August 25, 2012 from complications of a blocked coronary artery after surgery in a hospital in Cincinnati, Ohio. He was 82 years old. In July 2019, "The New York Times" reported that Armstong died after nurses removed the wires connected to his temporary pacemaker. He began to bleed internally and his blood pressure dropped and the doctors did not perform surgery on time to save him.


Caretaker

A caretaker is someone who has the job of looking after a building. For example, the building could be a school or shop.


Samuel Beckett

Samuel Barclay Beckett (; 13 April 1906 – 22 December 1989) was an Irish writer. He was born in Dublin, Ireland. Becket wrote novels, plays and poetry. He also translated other famous works of literature. He was given the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1969.

His best-known play is "Waiting For Godot". It has often been acted on stage and on TV.

Beckett was stabbed in Paris in 1938. 

He died of breathing problems in Paris in 1989. 

Many writers of plays (playwrights) and others think he is one of the most important writers of the 20th century. There have been many books written about him.

His books are often about people going through hard times and seeing life as both sad and funny.

Theatre

Radio

Television

Cinema

Vegetarianism

Vegetarianism is the practice of not eating meat or fish. People who follow vegetarianism are called vegetarians. Vegetarians eat foods like vegetables, fruit, nuts, beans and grains. Some vegetarians eat or drink animal products, like milk and eggs. They are called lacto-ovo vegetarians. Vegetarian people may like tofu, falafel and other meat substitutes.

There are many reasons for not eating meat. Vegetarians are healthier than other people in some ways. Some people think that it is wrong to kill animals; others think that eating meat is bad for their health or the world. This is because land used for animals can be used to grow food. Some people may become vegetarians because their religion says not to eat animals.

Vegetarians who do not drink milk and eat eggs are called vegans. Vegans also often will not use animal products like leather, but many vegetarians do use animal products.

Some people who call themselves vegetarians and eat fish or sea food are not vegetarians, because fish and sea creatures are also animals. Such people are sometimes called "pescetarians". There are also many people who are not vegetarians, but do not eat too much animal food. Some eat only very little meat (so-called "flexitarians" or "semi-vegetarians"), some eat only fowl ("pollotarians"). There is also a philosophy called freeganism, it means eating animal products only if otherwise they will be thrown away to waste - such as food thrown away by restaurants. 

There are several reasons why people choose to be vegetarians. It has many proven benefits on human health. Some think it is wrong or cruel to eat animals, since animals are killed and often feel pain. Other people may feel disgusted by meat or do not like the taste. A fourth reason is the effect on the environment. Producing meat (especially beef) uses more of the earth's land and water than eating food from plants. People may have more than one different reason for being a vegetarian.

A vegetarian diet or a diet very low in meat has proven good effects on human health. It takes work to put together a healthy vegetarian diet that has everything the human body needs. When people decide to become vegetarian, they usually think carefully about what they eat and choose healthy food. They also go to the trouble of finding fresh food more often. Vegetarians eat lots of antioxidants and natural fiber. Scientists say vegetarians are less likely to have heart disease, some kinds of cancer, obesity and diabetes.

 Most vegetarians in the world are Hindu. Hinduism and Jainism in general teach vegetarianism, while Buddhism may or may not. Rastafari and Seventh-day Adventism also teach vegetarianism. Without any specific religion, some people in the Western world also follow a vegetarian diet because it may deepen inner spiritual connections (for example, James Redfield). Mahatma Gandhi said that spiritual experiences are greatly enhanced on a vegetarian diet. 

Hindus teach vegetarianism as a way to live with a minimum of hurt to other beings. In today’s world, about twenty percent of all Hindus are vegetarians. There are approximately 200 million vegetarians in India, which has more people that do not eat meat than any other country. More vegetarians live in the South of India than in the North, possibly because the North is colder. For yoga and meditation, it is wise to be vegetarian. 

The Hindu who believes in non-injury or nonviolence (ahimsa) naturally adopts a vegetarian diet. It is a matter of conscience more than anything else. The Vedic and Puranic scriptures of Hinduism explain that animals have souls and the act of killing animals brings bad karma because the killer will suffer the pain of the animal he has killed in this life or the next. Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami adds that when we eat meat, fish, fowl and eggs, we absorb the vibration of the creatures into our nerves. This promotes fear, anger, jealousy, confusion, resentment and the like. The Manu Dharma Shastras state, “When the diet is pure, the mind and heart are pure.” Generally there is the belief, based on scriptures such as Bhagavad Gita, that one's food shapes the personality, mood and mind.


British

A British person or object comes from the United Kingdom of Great Britain (England, Scotland, Wales) and Northern Ireland. It is sometimes used by the Isle of Man or the Channel Islands (near France). It can also be used for some overseas places like Gibraltar (near Spain) or the Falkland Islands (near South America).

The term "British" is often used to describe something unique to the UK, for example British people, 'the British way of life' or 'the British weather'.

A British person can also be called a Briton. A unique symbol of the "British" is the Union Jack flag which is recognised globally as a symbol of the United Kingdom. The flag is made up of a combination of the flags of the countries that are part of the United Kingdom.

The British Isles are Great Britain, Ireland, and some smaller islands. The British Isles include the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland.

Although being British is a collective identity, the countries of England, Scotland, Northern Ireland, and Wales have separate identities and flags which make them unique.


Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis

Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis is a video game for the PC and PlayStation 2. The goal of the game is to create a theme park and keep the park guests safe. The player can choose the island they build on and what dinosaurs to place in their park. They can choose up to 25 dinosaurs to add to the park. After the park is created, they can play 12 missions. After winning all missions, a game option called Site B is unlocked. With Site B, the player can create an island without any fences or people, just like the 3rd "Jurassic Park" movie.

Think Quest

ThinkQuest was an educational website. It was used by students of schools in the United States and other countries. It was run by the Oracle Education Foundation.

As of July 1, 2013, ThinkQuest was discontinued.


Terry Gilliam

Terrence Vance Gilliam (born November 22, 1940) is an American-British cartoonist and filmmaker. He was born in Minnesota and grew up in California, but he now lives in England and is a British citizen.

He was a member of the British comedy team Monty Python. He designed animated sequences and acted in both their television show and movies. He also directed the movies "Jabberwocky" (1976), "Time Bandits" (1981), "Brazil" (1985), "Baron Münchhausen" (1989), "Fisher King" (1991), "12 Monkeys" (1996), "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas" (1998), and "The Brothers Grimm" (2005).


Upcoming movies:




