HIV


Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is a type of virus called a Lentivirus. This is a kind of retrovirus. It infects the human immune system, which is the system in the body which fights off infections. 

HIV may cause AIDS. This kills the white blood cells which a healthy body uses to fight diseases.

A person can get infected with HIV if any body liquid with the virus gets into their body. The body liquids that carry HIV are blood, semen, liquid from the vagina, and breast milk. 

The virus may get into the body through injured skin. More usually it gets in through the mouth, eyes, nose, vagina, anus, or penis. 

However, when people get HIV by having sex, the virus may enter the body through the vagina or anus.

There are some common ways to get HIV:

A person cannot get infected with HIV from non-sexual touching, like a hug or handshake, or touching someone else's saliva. A person cannot get HIV from an insect bite, a cough, or a sneeze. People also cannot get HIV from touching light switches, using toilets, or drinking from the same glass as a person with HIV.

<br>

HIV causes a person to become more prone to illness, so infected people need treatment options. However, there is no cure for HIV. To help ease negative symptoms, drugs called anti-retroviral therapy (ART) are available. This treatment is also called high active anti-retroviral therapy (HAART). HAART treatment begins with one non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) and two nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs). The NRTI drug could be named zidovudine (AZT), tenofovir (TDF), andlamivudine (3TC), or emtricitabine (FTC).

These drugs slow the progression of the HIV virus in the body. Usually, these treatments consist of a combination of three or more drugs, and each drug performs a different job in fighting the virus. In general, HAART prevents the HIV from multiplying and destroying CD4 cells. CD4 cells are necessary to help protect the body from infections and cancer. Since the HIV virus destroys CD4 cells, it causes people with HIV to be more prone to illness.

It is recommended to start HAART if a person has HIV and has a CD4 cell count of less than or equal to 350 cells/mm3. This number can be determined by a doctor. A person’s age, sex, and other infections determine which treatment he or she should take. These medication regimens can help HIV-infected people live longer, healthier lives, and can also help prevent the HIV from advancing to AIDS.

There has been controversy surrounding when the correct time to start therapy should be after a person discovers that he or she has HIV. Recently, the answer has been that earlier treatment is recommended. This is because, first, effective therapy can prevent non-AIDS-related deaths. Second, therapy can prevent harm to a person’s immune system. Third, therapy can help prevent transmission of HIV to others, and can therefore reduce HIV prevalence overall. Although there are some negative side effects of antiretroviral medications, the benefits of therapy usually outweigh the negative effects.

Patients on HAART have reported significant improvements in physical health, emotional health, mental health, and daily function compared to HIV-positive patients not yet on treatment. Most research has occurred in developing countries, and little research has been done on the impacts of ART on household wellbeing.

Although HAART can be an effective means to treating HIV, there can be many negative side effects. Negative side effects can vary by drug, by ethnicity, and by drug interactions in the body. The following list contains the most common and serious negative side effects associated with HAART medications to treat HIV.

Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NRTIs)

Nonnucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTIs)

Protease Inhibitors (PIs)

Fusion Inhibitors
Chemokine Coreceptor Antagonists

Integrase Inhibitors

Pharmacokinetic Enhancers

Many people living with HIV have tried using alternative treatment methods, known as complementary and alternative medicine (CAM). Some types of CAM include stress management, natural health products, massage/therapeutic touch, acupuncture, and homeopathy. Stress management can increase quality of life for a person with HIV. Even with little evidence of its effectiveness, many people chose to try CAM because of the many negative side effects associated with HAART and the few negative side effects associated with CAM. Some HIV-infected people also try herbal medicines to treat HIV, but there has been no evidence showing any positive outcomes with the use of herbal remedies.

Another type of alternative therapy for treating HIV is micronutrient supplementation. Micronutrients are vitamins and minerals, so these supplements would be in the form of a general daily multivitamin. These supplements have been proven to help treat HIV because HIV can cause micronutrient deficiencies, so the supplements can help replenish these needed vitamins and minerals. Although the supplements may not help ease all negative symptoms, they offer some benefits and are safe for HIV-infected patients. Supplements are also safe for HIV-infected pregnant women and their children. Specifically, vitamin A and zinc have shown positive health effects. There are no major negative side effects of vitamin and mineral supplements.

Alternative therapies can help to reduce symptoms of diseases like HIV, but do not cure the disease, or stop the disease from spreading to other people.

"PREP" or "PrEP" is "pre-exposure prophylaxis". This means a person takes a drug before having risky sex. The drug 'Truvada' is a combination of two different anti-viral treatments: "tenofovir" and "emtricitabine". Truvada is very expensive, and was not available on the UK's National Health Service before 2016. A study, published in "The Lancet" in 2023 found that PrEP reduced the chances of getting HIV by almost 87% and recommended that it should be more easily available.

References


Frank Zappa

Frank Vincent Zappa (December 21, 1940 – December 4, 1993) was an American musician and composer. He was known for his strange style of music, which was often weird and funny. He made various types of music and many albums. Zappa worked with many other musicans, most notably his 1960s group The Mothers of Invention and his friend and blues singer Captain Beefheart. Some people think he is the best composer in popular music or even any non-classical music.

Zappa was born in Baltimore, Maryland, but spent most of his life in Southern California. He grew up in Baltimore, in Florida, and in Monterey, Claremont and El Cajon, California. His mother was of French and Italian descent; his father was an immigrant from Sicily. Zappa had four children with his wife Gail. They gave them all very unusual names: Moon Unit, Dweezil, Ahmet, and Diva.

Zappa was openly against drugs, Televangelism, and censoring music. He often tried to see what he could get away with.

Zappa died from prostate cancer in Los Angeles, California.


Tasmania

Tasmania (Palawa Kani: "lutruwita") is a large island off the southern coast of mainland Australia. It is a state of Australia. Its capital and the largest city is Hobart. The island was joined to the mainland until the end of the most recent ice age about 10,000 years ago.

Tasmania has wonderful natural history, and is the most forested part of Australia. It has the country's largest areas of temperate rainforest. One of its many unique trees is the Leatherwood ("Eucryphia lucida"). This is a common tree in wet forests, and there are four related species on the mainland.

Tasmania is the home of rare animals such as eastern quolls and Tasmanian devils. It was the last home of the thylacine, which became extinct in 1936.

Tasmania is a state of Australia. Unlike the other states, it is an island. The Bass Strait separates it from the Australian mainland. 

Australian aboriginals are the native people of Tasmania. Abel Janszoon Tasman landed on the island in 1642. He called it "Van Diemen's Land". It was later called Tasmania. Much later, people came from Europe, mostly from the British Empire, to live on the island.

Tasmania has four cities: capital city Hobart, Launceston, Devonport and Burnie.

Tasmania is the smallest state in Australia. It also has the smallest population. The total population of Tasmania is just over 500,000 (September 2014).

For an history of Tasmania, see Van Diemen's Land.

Darwin Crater is a suspected meteorite impact crater in Western Tasmania about south of Queenstown. 

It is just in the Franklin-Gordon Wild Rivers National Park. The crater is a rimless circular flat-floored depression, in diameter, in mountainous and heavily forested terrain. It is East of the West Coast Range and the former North Mount Lyell Railway formation.

Tasmania has some of the most popular tourist attractions in the world. They range from old country towns to up to date cities. 
Some popular tourist places are:


M*A*S*H

M*A*S*H was an American media franchise that had several novels and a movie. Several television series have also been based on it. These include "M*A*S*H" (1970 movie), "M*A*S*H (TV series)" (1972), "AfterMASH" and "Trapper John, M.D.".

"M*A*S*H" started as a novel written by Richard Hooker. It was released in 1968, and was about a group of rebellious doctors at a MASH (Mobile Army Surgical Hospital) during the Korean War in the early 1950s. Several sequels were also written after the first book was successful. A movie and television series were based on the story.

"M*A*S*H" was made into a movie in 1970 that was liked by critics and audiences. It was directed by Robert Altman, and starred a large cast of talented actors that included Donald Sutherland, Elliott Gould, Tom Skerritt, Sally Kellerman, and Robert Duvall.

The movie won the Golden Palm award that year, which is the highest award at the Cannes Film Festival in Cannes, France. The movie was also a big hit with young people for its anti-establishment, wild feel. This was especially true because it was really seen to be about criticizing the Vietnam War that was going on at the time. That theme was only hidden somewhat by the setting of the movie during the earlier and less controversial Korean War.

It is also the #56 movie on AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list and #7 on AFI's 100 Years... 100 Laughs list.

The success of the books and movie inspired the very popular comedy television series, "M*A*S*H". The series ran from 1972 to 1983 on CBS and is one of the most popular American television shows ever. Reruns are still shown on cable and broadcast channels, and most of the show's seasons are sold on DVDs. Though it is not as popular as it was, it is still popular today.
The cast included Alan Alda, Wayne Rogers, Mike Farrell, McLean Stevenson, Harry Morgan, Loretta Swit, Larry Linville, David Ogden Stiers, Jamie Farr, Allan Arbus, William Christopher, and Gary Burghoff.

Burghoff played the naive, innocent, teenage, but gifted company clerk, "Radar" O'Reilly. His role was small but memorable in the "M*A*S*H" movie, and he was the only actor from that movie to also play his character on the television series.

The show's final episode which aired on February 28, 1983 was one of the most watched shows in TV history. It was viewed by 125 million people. There have been several spin-off series of "M*A*S*H". The first was "AfterMASH", which was about a Veteran's Hospital soon after the war was over. It was about Colonel Potter (Harry Morgan), who got a job there, Maxwell Klinger (Jamie Farr), who became his assistant, and Father Mulcahy (William Christopher), who came there as a patient who abused alcohol after he lost his hearing in the TV series. All three of them were major characters on the original series. The second spin-off was "W*A*L*T*E*R*", which was about Walter "Radar" O'Reilly (Gary Burghoff). It was an unsold pilot that was shown as a special television program. The most successful "M*A*S*H" spin-off was "Trapper John, M.D.", a spin-off of the movie. It starred Trapper John McIntyre (Pernell Roberts), but never talks about anything from the movie. It lasted 151 episodes across seven seasons.

Tim Kelly made a play about the novel, movie, and TV series in 1973.

Donald Sutherland

Donald McNichol Sutherland OC (born July 17, 1935) is a Canadian actor. He has appeared in more than 100 movie and television shows.

Sutherland is known for his roles in "Fellini's Casanova", "Klute", "Don't Look Now", "Invasion of the Body Snatchers", "JFK", "Ordinary People", "Pride & Prejudice," and "The Hunger Games". He is the father of actor Kiefer Sutherland.

Sutherland was born in Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada. His ancestry includes Scottish, as well as German and English. When Sutherland was a child, he had rheumatic fever, hepatitis and poliomyelitis. He studied at Victoria College and at University of Toronto. He studied acting London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art. Sutherland started off working as a radio DJ at the age of 14.

Sutherland's acting career began in 1962 with a small role in the television series "The Avengers". He then starred in some major roles in movies such as "Dr. Terror's House of Horrors" with Christopher Lee. He played Hawkeye Pierce in the movie M*A*S*H*.

Sutherland soon gained fame in the Academy Award-winning movie "Klute" with Jane Fonda. He then starred in the movie "Don't Look Now". He then starred in the movie "Buffy the Vampire Slayer".

Recently, Sutherland portrayed President Snow in the movie adaptation of "The Hunger Games", released in March 2012. He repeated the role in its sequel, "" (2013).

In 2018, Sutherland played J. Paul Getty in the television series "Trust".

Sutherland was married to Lois Hardwick from 1959 until they divorced in 1966. Then he was married to Shirley Douglas from 1966 until they divorced in 1970. Since 1972, Sutherland has been married to his current wife Francine Racette. He has five children, three of whom are actors.

Sutherland became a blogger for the American news website "The Huffington Post" during the 2008 United States presidential election campaign. In his blogs, he openly stated his support for Barack Obama.

During the Opening Ceremony of the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver he narrated the events. He was also one of the Olympic flag bearers.



