The White Stripes


The White Stripes were an American rock duo from Detroit, Michigan. There were two people in the band: Jack White (songwriter, vocals, guitar, piano, and bass) and Meg White (drums, percussion, and vocals). They are influential in the 2000s indie rock and garage rock revival. 

The White Stripes started in Detroit, and released two albums: their self-titled debut (1999) and "De Stijl" (2000). They became famous with their third album, "White Blood Cells" (2001). Their fourth album, "Elephant" (2003), won the Grammy Award for Best Alternative Music Album. Their last two albums, "Get Behind Me Satan" (2005) and "Icky Thump" (2007), each won the same award. After a break, they ended in 2011. 

The White Stripes were known for presenting in strictly red, white, and black colors, and their frequent use of the number three. Jack and Meg White were married when they started the band, but divorced after its formation. They did not want people to know that they were once married, and told the public that they were brother and sister. 


The White Stripes won a lot of awards. They won three Grammy Awards and five MTV Video Music Awards. Two of their albums are on "Rolling Stone"'s "500 Greatest Albums of All Time" list. "Rolling Stone" called them the sixth greatest duo of all time.

Studio albums

Millennium Dome

The Millennium Dome is a large dome-shaped building in Greenwich in South East London, UK (now known as The O). It was built between 1997 and 2000 to celebrate the beginning of the third millennium. The name was officially changed to The O when Telefónica O Europe plc bought the naming rights from the devehutz Entertainment Group.

From 31 December 1999 until 31 December 2000 the Dome and some surrounding buildings were the home of the Millennium Exhibition which was meant to show the best of Britain to the world. The most successful part of the Exhibition was the stage show that was held two or three times each day in the middle of the dome. The show had dozens of dancers and acrobats, music by Peter Gabriel, and a tower that rose out of the dome's floor.

The rest of the Exhibition was not as successful as the Dome's owners had hoped. About 6 and a half million people visited the Exhibition, which was only half the number its owners hoped for.

The dome was sold to US Anschutz Entertainment Group (AEG) and reopened in July 2007 as the O, an entertainment complex including a 22,000-seat concert and sports venue, cinema, music club and exhibition spaces. Among the first artists to perform there were Bon Jovi and Prince. The Rolling Stones performed there in August 2007, Led Zeppelin played a reunion show there in December 2007, and the Spice Girls took residence in the arena from December 2007 to January 2008.

In 2012, as part of the Summer Olympics in London, the building was renamed the "North Greenwich Arena" and was used to host gymnastics and basketball.

A walkway across the top of the dome's structure has been opened, allowing visitors to cross the roof at a height of 60m. The O2 Roofwalk tourist attraction is now partially powered by solar energy.

Millennium

A millennium (plural: "millennia") is a time period of one thousand (1000) years. The word "millennium" is derived from two Latin words "mille" ("thousand") and annum ("year").

Outlook

Outlook is a free email, address book and calendar software, included with Microsoft Office. It is owned by Microsoft. It was started in 1996 as Hotmail. Sabeer Bhatia and Jack Smith created it. In 1997, Microsoft bought Hotmail for about $400 million. They renamed it twice, to MSN Hotmail and Windows Live Hotmail. In 2013, Hotmail became Outlook. 

J. K. Rowling

Joanne Rowling , ( "rolling"; born 31 July 1965), writing under the pen names J. K. Rowling and Robert Galbraith, is a British writer. She wrote the "Harry Potter" books. She only uses the name J. K. Rowling for her books: the "K" stands for "Kathleen", which was the first name of her grandmother.

Rowling was born 31 July 1965 at Chipping Sodbury Cottage Hospital in Chipping Sodbury, Yate, Gloucesterhire England. She grew up in Tutshill, Gloucestershire, and went to school at Wyedean Comprehensive. She earned a degree in French and Classics at the University of Exeter. She worked at Amnesty International in London. The original idea for Harry Potter came to her on a train that was delayed for four hours in 1990. She moved to Portugal to teach English in 1990. She married Jorge Arantes in October 1992. They had her first child, Jessica in 1993. The marriage ended in divorce and Rowling moved to Edinburgh, Scotland. "Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone" (British version) (American version: "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone") was first published in the United Kingdom in 1997. She married Dr. Neil Murray in 2001. She had a second child, David, in 2003, and a third, Mackenzie, in January 2005. Rowling claims inspiration from Christianity.

Rowling has won many awards for the Harry Potter series of books and has earned over $1 billion. The last book of the series, "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows," was released on 21 July 2007. Due to the popularity of the books, Rowling has become very wealthy. The books have sold over 500 million copies. Rowling has written many books about the magic in Harry's world, such as 'Quidditch Through the Ages' and 'Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them'. Additionally, she has written other books targeting adults, the first of which is called "The Casual Vacancy". "The Cuckoo's Calling" was published in April 2013, under the pen name Robert Galbraith, and its sequel, called "The Silkworm," followed in June 2014. In 2016, people made an eighth book inspired by "Harry Potter." This book was called "Harry Potter and the Cursed Child." The book was the script for a play.

J K Rowling's novels feature a teenage boy named Harry Potter who grows up in a normal world with his aunt, uncle and cousin Dudley. When he is eleven years old, he discovers that he is a wizard and attends a magical academy called Hogwarts school of witchcraft and wizardry, where Albus Dumbledore is headmaster. Harry discovers his past about a dark wizard and with the help from his best friends Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger, he attempts to destroy the darkest wizard of all time, Voldemort, once and for all.





