Snoopy


Snoopy is Charlie Brown's pet beagle in the comic strip "Peanuts", by Charles M. Schulz. Born on the Daisy Hill Puppy Farm, Snoopy started out in the background. Eventually he stood on his hind legs and became a main character. Snoopy has many alter egos, and many siblings.

Snoopy's house looks small from the outside, but the inside is much bigger, like the Tardis from Doctor Who. He has many things in his house, including a TV set, Van Gogh painting, pool table, cedar closet, and many other things. It has been destroyed multiple times, including being burnt down, destroyed by a falling icicle, and being smashed by the violent cat who lives next door.


Snoopy has many alter egos. Most are "World Famous".


John Wilkes Booth

John Wilkes Booth (May 10, 1838 – April 26, 1865) was an American actor. He is known for killing U.S. president Abraham Lincoln in Washington, D.C. on April 14, 1865. Lincoln died the next morning.

Booth was born in Bel Air, Harford County, Maryland to English immigrant parents. He was a very well-known stage actor. Booth supported the Confederacy during the American Civil War. He was angry with Lincoln for supporting voting rights for former slaves. He also wanted to get Confederate soldiers to keep fighting the war, which was ending.

Booth was chased by United States soldiers and killed at a farm in Virginia twelve days after he shot Lincoln.

Booth became politically active in the 1850s. He joined the Know-Nothing Party, a political party that wanted fewer immigrants to come to the United States. Booth strongly supported slavery. In 1859, he joined a Virginia company that helped to capture John Brown after his raid on Harpers Ferry. Booth watched Brown's execution.

During the Civil War, Booth worked as a Confederate secret agent. He met with the heads of the Secret Service, Jacob Thompson and Clement Clay, in Montreal many times.

In the summer of 1864, Booth began making plans to kidnap President Lincoln. His plan said that Lincoln would be taken south to Richmond, where he would be held until he could be traded for Confederate prisoners of war. Booth got friends and people who supported the Confederacy to help him. Eight of these people were later tried for killing Lincoln by a military court designed to prosecute enemies of the United States during wartime. All eight were found guilty; four were executed by hanging. Some people who refused to join Booth, such as actor Samuel Chester, became key government witnesses in the trial.

On March 4, 1865, Booth attended Lincoln's second inauguration as president. Booth appears in some photographs taken that day. On March 15, Booth and most of his conspirators met at a restaurant three blocks from Ford's Theater to plan the kidnapping. Soon after, Booth heard that on March 17, the President would be seeing a play called "Still Waters Run Deep" at the Campbell Hospital, near Washington, D.C. Booth decided that this was the best time to kidnap him. According to John Surratt, Booth made a plan to intercept Lincoln's carriage on the way to the play. However, President Lincoln changed his plans and decided to speak to the 140th Indiana Regiment and present a captured flag.

Booth's next plan was to kidnap the President at another performance at Ford's Theatre (where Booth had several friends). This plan failed when Booth’s co-conspirators said it would not work.

On April 4, the Union Army took over Richmond, the capital city of the Confederacy. Five days later, General Robert E. Lee surrendered Confederate forces to the Union Army. After these two events, Booth decided to kill Lincoln instead of kidnapping him. According to Booth's friend, Louis Weichmann, Booth may have decided to kill the President on April 11. On that day, Booth listened while Lincoln gave a speech supporting voting rights for black Americans. Weichmann, who saw the President's speech with Booth, later said: 

On April 14, 1865, Booth went to Ford’s Theater in Washington, D.C. to pick up his mail. There he found out that Lincoln and his wife would be seeing a play at the theater that evening. Booth knew the play well. He met with his co-conspirators, and they decided that around 10:15 that evening, they would kill President Lincoln, Vice-president Johnson, Secretary of State William Seward, and possibly General Ulysses S. Grant.

That afternoon, Booth made a hole in a wall at the theater so he could see the President and his guests in their balcony room. There were no guards protecting the balcony room. During the play, Booth quietly entered the room. He knew that at 10:15 pm, the audience would laugh at a line in the play. When the laughter began, Booth fired a pistol at point-blank range into the back of Lincoln's head. Booth escaped by jumping from the balcony onto the stage, where he shouted the triumphant line;Sic semper tyrannis (‘Thus always to tyrants’) to the audience. When he escaped from the box, he broke his leg during the jump, but escaped out the back door and onto his horse.

Lincoln was carried across the street to Petersen House, where he died the next morning. One co-conspirator did attack Secretary of State Seward with a knife the night of the 14th, but Seward survived the attack. The conspirator who planned to attack Vice President Johnson did not follow through with the plot.

Booth fled with an accomplice south through Maryland to Virginia. An army troop caught up with him on April 26. His accomplice surrendered, but Booth refused. He yelled “I will not be taken alive!” He was shot while being captured and later died from his wounds. The bullet struck Booth in the back of the head behind his left ear, passed though his neck, and out into the barn. A low scream of pain like that produced by a sudden throttling came from the assassin, and he pitched headlong to the floor. Corbett and the other soldiers would note a sense of poetic, or cosmic, justice in that Lincoln and Booth were each shot around the same spot of the head. And the damage to Booth was no less severe than that to Lincoln: the bullet had pierced three vertebrae and partially severed his spinal cord, paralyzing him. Their conditions were different, as Mary Clemmer Ames summed it up, "The balls entered the skull of each at nearly the same spot, but the trilling difference made an immeasurable difference in the sufferings of the two. Mr. Lincoln was unconscious of all pain, while his assassin suffered as exquisite agony as if he had been broken on a wheel." A soldier poured water into his mouth, which he immediately spat out, unable to swallow. The bullet wound prevented him from swallowing any of the liquid. In a weak voice, Booth asked for water and Conger and Baker gave it to him. He asked them to roll him over and turn him facedown. Conger thought it a bad idea. Then at least turn me on my side, the assassin pleaded. They did, but Conger saw that the move did not relieve Booth’s suffering. Baker noticed it, too: "He seemed to suffer extreme pain whenever he was moved...and would several times repeat, ‘Kill me.’" At sunrise, Booth remained in agonising pain. His pulse weakening as his breathing became more laboured and irregular. In agony, unable to move his limbs, he asked a soldier to lift his hands before his face and whispered as he gazed at them, "Useless ... Useless." These were his last words. A few minutes later, Booth began gasping for air as his throat continued to swell, then there was a shiver and a gurgle and his body shuddered, before Booth died from asphyxia - he literally choked to death.

Corbett maintained that he didn't intend to kill Booth, but merely wanted to inflict a disabling wound, but either his aim slipped or Booth moved at the moment Corbett pulled the trigger.


Annapolis, Maryland

Annapolis is the capital city of the U.S. state of Maryland. As of the census in 2020, its population was 40,812. It is home to the United States Naval Academy, where the United States Naval Officers get their training. It is also home to Saint John's College, originally King William's School founded in 1696. Annapolis is the oldest seat of government still in service in America.

Annapolis became the temporary capital of the United States after the signing of the Treaty of Paris in 1783. Congress was in session in the state house from November 26, 1783 to June 3, 1784, and it was in Annapolis on December 23, 1783 that General Washington resigned his commission as commander-in-chief of the Continental Army.
Annapolis is also known as the sailing capital of the U.S. It is on Chesapeake Bay, the largest inland tidal estuary in the world. The Chesapeake Bay can not sustain the higher life that once filled these waters, and 3 of the main harvests need to be re-stocked by man in order to maintain 1/10th (or less) of the numbers - Oysters and Rockfish, and more recently as reported in the Capital, Blue Crab stocks are at an all-time and ever-decreasing low, with scientists from University of Maryland researching how to raise crabs for re-introduction.
Chesapeake Bay Native plants and animals are often crowded out by invasive species which are more hardy to the now-polluted environment. Fragmites, the Chinese Mitten Crab, English Ivy, and the Mute Swan are examples of invasive species thriving in this man-altered environment.
Annapolis is the only capital city in America east of the Mississippi River without any rail transportation.

Keanu Reeves

Keanu Charles Reeves (born September 2, 1964) is a Canadian actor. He is known for his roles in movies like the "Bill and Ted" series, "The Matrix" series, "Speed", and "John Wick". He also played John Constantine in the 2005 movie "Constantine".

At age 9, he started his acting career by appearing onstage, and at age 14, he appeared in Canadian television series and commercials. He also appeared in short movies and stage work in early 1980s. Keanu acted his first significant role in "River's Edge" (1987), and the next year (1988), he appeared in some movies such as "Dangerous Liaisons" and "Permanent Record". In 1989, he appeared in the successful comedy "Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure", which was one of the "Bill and Ted" series. In 2008 he played the alien in "The Day the Earth Stood Still".

In 2014, he began playing John Wick in three movies: "John Wick", "" and "". In 2022, he voiced Batman / Bruce Wayne in the animated movie "DC League of Super-Pets". 

Reeves was born in Beirut, Lebanon. He is the son of Patricia Bond (née Taylor), an English-born costume designer/performer, and Samuel Nowlin Reeves, Jr. His father, who is a Hawaiian-born American, has English, Native Hawaiian, Chinese, Irish, and Portuguese ancestry. Reeves has said: "My grandmother is Chinese and Hawaiian, so I was around Chinese art, furniture and cuisine when I was growing up". He is named after his uncle, and his first name is a Hawaiian word that means 'cool breeze over the mountains'.


Kurt Cobain

Kurt Donald Cobain (February 20, 1967 - April 5, 1994) was an American musician. He was the lead singer and guitarist of the grunge band Nirvana, which also included bassist Krist Novoselic and drummer Dave Grohl. He was also a left-handed guitarist.

In 2023, Cobain appears at number 36 on the "Rolling Stone" magazine's "200 best singers of all time" list.

Cobain was born in the city of Aberdeen, Washington. His parents divorced when he was seven years old. During his sophomore year in high school, Cobain began living with his mother in Aberdeen. In late 1986 Cobain moved into an apartment. At this time he often travelled to Olympia to go to rock concerts.

Cobain met Courtney Love in 1990. Love began pursuing Cobain in 1991. He married her in 1992 in Hawaii after she found out that she was pregnant with his child, Frances Bean Cobain.

In 2002, some of Cobain's private journal entries were published in a book called "Journals".

Cobain was very influential in creating what came to be known as grunge music. Grunge musicians pushed back against music they saw as commercial and shallow. Grunge was a reaction against 1980s stadium rock and metal bands that were more concerned with appearance than sound.

Kurt Cobain started Nirvana with his friend Krist Novecselic in 1987. They often would practice on the second floor of Novescelic's Mom's hair salon. Nirvana's first album, "Bleach", was released in 1989. They went through five different drummers and finally they decided to hire Dave Grohl from the band Scream in 1990. After the 1991 release of their hit album "Nevermind", Nirvana became one of the most popular bands of the decade. Nirvana's best known song is "Smells Like Teen Spirit", which was often referred to by the media as an anthem for Generation X and grunge itself. Often Cobain expressed frustration with his fame, because he thought they were getting the wrong side of him. They went on to release one more album, "In Utero". it wasn't as famous as "Nevermind", but it was still very successful. Cobain said that this album was the one he was looking for, the sound he had in his head for their last two albums. he decided that he wanted to have a more mellow sound. The band broke up after Cobain committed suicide in 1994.

On February 20, 2014, Aberdeen had its first Kurt Cobain Day.

Cobain was diagnosed with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and bipolar disorder. He started using drugs when he was a teenager. He often used heroin. Cobain also had chronic bronchitis. He used drugs to self-treat his undiagnosed stomach condition. Later in his career, he was admitted to special drug treatment hospitals several times. The last time he was admitted, he escaped to his home. Cobain committed suicide by shooting himself with a gun and taking an overdose of heroin in 1994. Although conductor David Woodard had built a Dreamachine for Cobain, reports that Cobain had been using the psychoactive device excessively in the days leading up to his suicide were contradicted by later findings. Cobain is a member of the '27 club' of popular musicians who have died at the age of 27, often from drug abuse.


Mikhail Gorbachev

Mikhail Sergeyevich Gorbachev (sometimes spelled Gorbachov) (2 March 1931 – 30 August 2022) was a Soviet politician and leader from 1985 to 1991 during the end of the Cold War from 1989 to 1991.

He was the General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (1985-91), Chairman of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union (head of state) . Gorbachev is known for forming a friendship with President of the United States Ronald Reagan and is often associated with the fall of the soviet union

Gorbachev was born in Privolnoye, Stavropol Krai, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union. He grew up in a Kolkhoz collective farm. He did well in school and went to Moscow State University. Gorbachev joined the Communist Party in the 1950s and steadily rose through the ranks.

Following the Death of his predecessor Konstantin Chernenko in March 1985, Gorbachev was elected as General Secretary. Gorbachev's attempts at reform and partnership with Ronald Reagan led to the end of the Cold War. His main intent was to improve the economy of the USSR. To do this, he set in motion two major reforms:

Indirectly, this may have helped cause the end of the power of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU), and the break-up of the Soviet Union into smaller countries. However, it should be noted that the need to modernise the economy, and to conduct government less ruthlessly than Stalin, was agreed by the previous two leaders. They, Andropov and Chernenko, were elderly and died before real changes could be put in place.

In 1990, Gorbachev created the office of President of the Soviet Union. It was to be based on the systems in France and the United States. The office merged office of General Secretary and head of state. The President was to be elected by the Soviet People but its only holder was Gorbachev who wasn't elected. Gorbachev saw the office mainly as a position for himself to remain influential in Soviet politics. His main goal was to keep the Soviet Union together, controlled by Moscow.

After the August coup in 1991, Gorbachev resigned as leader of the Communist Party and held onto the Soviet presidency. When Union republics began to turn away from the Soviet system, Gorbachev's power was dramatically reduced. By late 1991 he had almost no influence outside of Moscow. When Russia, Ukraine and Belarus became independent, Gorbachev was basically a President of a country that only existed on paper. He resigned on December 25, 1991.

Gorbachev studied law at Lomonosov Moscow State University. He met his future wife, Raisa Gorbachova, there. Gorbachova studied sociology. After retiring from politics in 1991, Gorbachev started The Gorbachev Foundation, which is currently headed by his daughter Irina. In 2004, he traveled to the United States to represent Russia at Ronald Reagan's funeral.

Gorbachev died at a hospital in Moscow on 30 August 2022, at the age of 91. He died after a long illness, however at the time of his death he had diabetes and kidney problems. 

His funeral was held on 3 September, however President Vladimir Putin did not give him a state funeral.

Gorbachev was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1990. He won a Grammy Award in 2004 with Bill Clinton and Sophia Loren for Best Spoken Word Album for Children for their recording of Sergei Prokofiev's "Peter and the Wolf".

A Russian play about Gorbachev titled "Gorbachev" was made in 2020. The play focuses on Gorbachev and the relationship with his wife Raisa.

Gorbachev's legacy is a complex mix. He is credited with reforms like perestroika and glasnost, but his leadership also saw the end of the Soviet Union. Thus, Gorbachev's legacy is a subject of intense debate among historians. Some see him as a reformer, while others blame him for the USSR's collapse.



