Daihatsu


The Daihatsu Motor Company Ltd. makes small cars and trucks. The company is part of the same manufacturing group that includes FAW Group Motor Ltd. The company was set up in 1907. Examples of their cars are the Daihatsu Charade, the Rocky Four Wheel Drive SUV and the Daihatsu Copen. Daihatsu cars and trucks are notable for their rugged construction and high level of finish. After a brief, unsuccessful attempt at the U.S. market toward the end of the 20th century, the company withdrew from the U.S. in 1999. The Subaru Sambar is also made by this company. 1951

Hydrocarbon

A hydrocarbon is a type of chemical compound. It is made of only hydrogen and carbon atoms.
They can be found in crude oil and are separated by fractional distillation (which means they are separated into different groups). The hydrogen and carbon are bonded with non-polar covalent bonds. Because of its lack of polar covalent bonds, hydrocarbons cannot create hydrogen bonds with water and are hydrophobic.

Hydrocarbons are grouped into "families" or "homologous series". There are five main families. The hydrocarbons in each family have a general formula and similar chemical properties, and similar trends in physical properties. This system was approved in 1892 by the International Congress of Chemists, meeting in Geneva.

Alkanes are the simplest hydrocarbons. Their general formula is CH.

Alkenes are similar to alkanes. The main difference between them is that alkenes have a carbon to carbon double bond. The general formula for the alkenes is CH.
Note that there is no "Methene". Methene is not possible as alkenes require a carbon-carbon double bond and methane only has one carbon atom.

Alkynes have a carbon to carbon triple bond. CH is their general formula.
"Methyne" does not exist because of methane's one carbon atom.

Cycloalkanes are isomers of alkenes. They have the same general formula (CH), the only difference is that they do not have a carbon to carbon double bond.

Note that the alkene Ethene does not have a cycloalkane as it can only form a straight line.

Alkadienes have two carbon to carbon double bonds. Their general formula is CH. They are isomers of Alkynes.

In a similar manner, there can also exist alkatriene (three carbon to carbon bonds) and other forms. The versatile nature of Carbon's chemistry allows for a nearly infinite number of configurations and compounds.

Aromatic hydrocarbons are aromatic organic molecules that form flat ring-shaped bonds. The most simplest of aromatic hydrocarbons are benzene and indole. They can have one ring, "heterocyclic", like benzene or 2 rings, "bicyclic" like napthalene (primary ingredient in mothballs) or many rings, "polycyclic" like anthracene (red dye colourant).
Their general formula is CH, where n is a number greater than or equal to 6.

Shanghai

Shanghai (, ; ) is the biggest city in China and one of the world's largest cities. It had about 24,000,000 people in 2017. It is a special province-level city in China ("municipality"), like Beijing, Tianjin, and Chongqing. 

The Mandarin Chinese name of Shanghai is "Shànghǎi", which is written as in Chinese characters. This name means "On-the-Sea" because Shanghai used to be next to the East China Sea. Today, dirt from the Yangtze River has made Pudong much bigger and downtown Shanghai is about from the open sea. The city has become so big, though, that its government now controls other areas like Pudong and Fengxian that are still beside the sea.

Shanghai's name is a little simpler than most other Chinese cities' names, because it was a small fishing village for a long time. The short way to say its name in Chinese is still "Hù" (). A hu was an old kind of fishing trap that was made with bamboo and nets. The people around Shanghai used to use them to catch fish and crabs in Suzhou Creek and other waterways.

Shanghai is at the mouth of the Yangtze River, where it meets the East China Sea in the middle of China's east coast. Downtown Shanghai is located just south of the place where Suzhou Creek meets the Huangpu River. This is about southwest of where the Huangpu meets the Yangtze River. The area between downtown and the Yangtze used to be farmland and other cities like Wusong and Baoshan, but now Shanghai is so big that they are part of it.

For most of China's history, Shanghai was a small fishing village. The big cities nearby were Suzhou and Hangzhou. Under the Ming and Qing, Shanghai had a big city wall and started to grow. 

Under the Ming and the Qing, people from other countries could only buy and sell things with China on an island near Guangzhou. The British effectively controlled Shanghai from the mid 19th century until World War II. Parts of Shanghai were controlled by the UK, the US, and France. This control was ended by the Japanese during World War II.

The Chinese Communist Party was founded in Shanghai.

Shanghai attracts many tourists each year. Its landmarks include:
Shanghai Disneyland Park, Happy Valley, Jinjiang Amusement Park

Huamu, Lujiazui, Wujiaochang, Xintiandi, Xujiahui, Zhenru

Hongkou Football Stadium, Pudong Football Stadium, Shanghai Library, Shanghai Grand Theater, Tianzifang arts, crafts, and folklore

Guyi Garden, Yu Garden
Shanghai Science and Technology Museum, China Art Museum, Shanghai Natural Museum, 
Sheshan, Shanghai Ocean Aquarium, Shanghai Wildlife Park

East Nanjing Road, People's Square, Site of the First CPC National Congress, The Bund, Zhujiajiao

City God Temple of Shanghai, Confucian Temple of Shanghai, Jing'an Temple, Jade Buddha Temple, Longhua Temple, Zhenru Temple 

Shanghai World Financial Center, Oriental Pearl Tower, Shanghai Tower, Jinmao Tower

Shanghai is home to the China Stock Exchange, along with Shenzhen, and is the financial center of China.




