Landseer dog


The Landseer (Continental-European type) is a dog breed.

Glasgow

Glasgow (Scottish: "Glaschu", Lowland Scots: "Glesga") is the biggest and busiest city in Scotland. It is on the banks of the River Clyde. People from Glasgow are known as "Glaswegians" ("glas-wee-jans"), which is a name also used for words that are used only in Glasgow - also known as "The Glasgow Patter".

The number of people living in Glasgow is 626,410 (2019 estimate). Many more people live in the areas round the city. There are 1,209,143 people living in the Greater Glasgow urban area. The wider metropolitan area is home to over 1,670,000 people, about 33% of Scotland's population.

The number of people living inside the city proper used to be much higher. Starting in the early 1960s the old tenements were pulled down and new housing built further out (high-rise blocks were the fashion of the day). Now there is nowhere near the number of people living in Glasgow as during the famous times of the shipyards on the River Clyde. It was said to be the second biggest city in the world after London at one point in the 1800s. 

Many people from other countries visit Glasgow for holidays and trips; most of these people are from Europe France, America (the US and Canada) for weekend and week trips.

Two airports serve the city, Glasgow International Airport and Prestwick Airport. The main railway stations in the city are Glasgow Central and Queen Street stations. They provide rail links to the rest of Scotland, to the rest of the United Kingdom and Europe.

There are a number of theatres and concert halls in the city. These include the SECC (Scottish Exhibition and Conference Centre), the Royal Concert hall, the King's Theatre, the Pavilion Theatre and the Theatre Royal.

Glasgow has several football teams - the best known are Rangers F.C. and Celtic F.C.. Partick Thistle, Clydebank, and Queens Park F.C. also play in the city.

Glasgow has an oceanic climate ("Cfb" in the Koeppen climate classification). The weather in Glasgow is almost always changing, and it is hard to say what the entire day's weather is like. Very often, the weather is worst in the morning when it is mostly damp and sometimes misty or even foggy; the Glasgow Patter also refers to "dreich" weather - damp and drizzly. However, the weather mostly improves through the afternoon and more often than not the weather stays dry and at an average temperature.

In summer it is popular as a base for tourists. They can stay in Glasgow and then travel to see Loch Lomond and the Western Isles. One of the oldest paddle-steamer boats is in Glasgow, and in the summer one can travel down the Clyde to visit other towns and islands.


Grampian

Grampian was a government region in north east Scotland. It was named after the Grampian mountains which start in this region.

The capital city of the region was Aberdeen.

The region was created in 1974. It was removed in 1995 because local government in Scotland was made simpler.

Scottish Borders

Scottish Borders is a council area (region) in south Scotland. Its name is because it is on the border with England.

The name is usually shortened to " "the Borders"."

It is made up of the counties of :-


The main town of the region is Newtown St Boswells.

Central Region, Scotland

Central was a government region in central Scotland between 1974 and 1995. After local government in Scotland was made simpler, it was replaced with smaller areas.

Dumfries and Galloway

Dumfries and Galloway is a council area in south west Scotland. In takes in three counties:


The main and biggest town of the region is Dumfries. Dumfries is 60 miles south of Edinburgh, the capital of Scotland.

Fife

Fife is a county on the north coast of the Firth of Forth, Scotland. The county town is Glenrothes.

For local government, the county is a council area too.

The towns in Fife are:


Highland (council area)

The Highland (council area) is a local government region in north Scotland. It covers most of the area which people call the Scottish Highlands.

Lothian

Lothian was a region on the east coast of Scotland that was used for local government until the new municipalities were created. Lothian has been divided into four new council areas: Edinburgh, Midlothian, East Lothian and West Lothian.

Strathclyde

Strathclyde was a region in west Scotland. It is named after the River Clyde. The capital city of the region was Glasgow. 

A long time ago, Strathclyde was also the name of one of the kingdoms which united to form Scotland.

Tayside

Tayside was a government region on the east coast of Scotland. It was named after the River Tay. The capital city of the region was Dundee.

The region was created in 1974. It was removed in 1995 because local government in Scotland was made simpler.

Dundee

Dundee is a city on the east coast of Scotland where the River Tay flows into the North Sea. It is the fourth largest city in Scotland. It was famous as the city of "Jute, jam, and journalism", because jute and jam were made there, and several newspapers were printed in the city.

Dundee has a population of 148,260 people. It is the fourth largest city in Scotland.

There are two universities in Dundee. They are called the "University of Dundee" and the "University of Abertay Dundee".

It also is home to two professional football teams. Dundee F.C. and Dundee United F.C., who both play in the Scottish Premier League. Unusually, their stadiums (Dens Park and Tannadice) are very close together, in the same street.

Dundee Airport serves the area.

Oxford

Oxford is a city in England. It is on the River Thames. It is a very old city. It is the 52nd largest city in the United Kingdom. Some of its buildings were built before the 12th century. It is famous for its university, Oxford University, which is the oldest university in the English-speaking world.

About 150,200 live in Oxford. Two rivers run through the city, the Cherwell and the Thames. These two rivers meet south of the city centre.

Besides its university, there are some buildings famous for their architecture (the style in which they were built), like the Radcliffe Camera. There are also lots of museums and other places for tourists to visit.

The south and east of the city are less wealthy and have fewer students. Cowley used to be a separate town and has a large car factory, and Blackbird Leys is an area of mainly council housing.

Oxford has a station in the centre of the city and a station on the outskirts of the city.


George VI

George VI (born Albert Frederick Arthur George Windsor; 14 December 1895 – 6 February 1952) was King of the United Kingdom from 11 December 1936 until his death on 6 February 1952. He became king when his older brother, Edward VIII, abdicated in 1936 to marry Wallis Simpson. George was married to Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon from April 1923 until his death.

He was succeeded as monarch by his elder daughter, Elizabeth.

George had a stutter. This made it very difficult for him to carry out many of the public duties of a king which required him to make speeches. He was treated by an Australian speech and language therapist called Lionel Logue. The story of this part of George's life was made into a movie in 2010 called "The King's Speech". Colin Firth played the role of George, and Geoffrey Rush played the role of Logue.

George became a very popular king throughout the British Empire. He won admiration during World War II (19391945), in which he stayed at Buckingham Palace during the most intense months of the Blitz. The Palace was bombed more than twice but he still remained, becoming a symbol of resistance and "fighting spirit". He enjoyed a close working relationship with his wartime Prime Minister Winston Churchill, inviting him to join the Royal Family on Victory in Europe Day (1945) to celebrate the defeat of the Nazis.

After World War II ended, his health began to decline which meant he couldn’t do many duties as king so Princess Elizabeth took them on in his place. A heavy smoker, George died of lung cancer and was given a state funeral. He was 56 years old.


George VI was the son of King George V and Queen Mary. He was the younger brother of Edward VIII, who gave up the throne to marry an American divorced woman, Wallis Simpson. In April 1923, George married his beloved wife Elizabeth, who later became known as Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother. They had two children, Princesses Elizabeth (later Elizabeth II) (19262022) and Margaret (19302002).

George VI died on 6 February 1952. Crowds began to gather in London in the early hours of the morning of the funeral. Thousands saw the event on television. Shortly after 9:00am, the funeral procession arrived at Westminster Hall. More than 300,000 people paid their respects to his body which lay in state for three days.


Anatolia

Anatolia, also called Asia Minor (from Ancient Greek: 'Άνατολή, Turkish: Anadolu), is a peninsula at the west end of Asia. It forms the majority of modern Turkey.

It has an area of . Most of it is a plateau. that averages above sea level. Its climate is continental and semi-arid in the interior, temperate along the northern coast, and subtropical along the southern and the western coasts. Most of its people speak Turkish.

Anatolia is surrounded by the Black Sea, the Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean Sea. It is between Europe and Asia. This has lead to people of many different cultures living there. 

Many great historical peoples have lived in or occupied Anatolia; They include the Hittites, Lydians, Greeks, Persians, Armenians, Celts, Romans, Goths, Byzantines, Seljuk Turks and Ottoman Turks. The Roman Empire had a province called Asia that was also called Phrygia. People later started to call the entire continent Asia. Because of this, the peninsula became called Asia Minor (Little Asia).

Troy is the most famous of the many cities that existed long ago in Anatolia. 

Zoroastrianism

Zoroastrianism is an Iranian religion created by Zoroaster, who lived in eastern ancient Iran around 1000 BC. Other names for Zoroastrianism are Mazdaism and Parsiism. It is the ancestral religion of the Persians.

Zoroastrianism is a monotheistic religion. The Zoroastrian god is called Ahura Mazda. The holy book of Zoroastrianism is the Zend Avesta.

Zoroastrianism is also dualist. Zoroastrians believe Ahura Mazda created the good spirits (Spenta Mainyu), and Angra Mainyu the demons. Zoroastrians believe people are free to choose between good and bad. Choosing good will lead to happiness, and choosing bad will lead to unhappiness. So it is the best to choose good. Therefore, the motto of the religion is "Good Thoughts, Good Words, Good Deeds".

Zoroastrianism was the state religion of Persia starting in the 6th century BC, including the Sassanid dynasty. In the 7th century AD, Persia was conquered by Islamic Arabs, and most Persians became Muslim. There is no boy circumcision in Zoroastrianism.

Nowadays, there are about 2.6 million Zoroastrians in the world. Most of them live in Iran, Pakistan and India. In Pakistan and India, they are called Parsis. Many Zoroastrians now live in the United States. Zoroastrian Fire Temples include one in Yazd City in Iran.

These are the basic beliefs of Zoroastrianism:

There is one God, called Ahura Mazda. He is the one Uncreated Creator. Zoroastrians worship only him.

Ahura Mazda created everything. There is a conflict between order (which he created) and chaos (or disorder). Everything in the universe is part of this conflict, including humans.

To help fight the chaos, people need to: 

People also need to do these things in order to be happy. This "active life" is the basis of what Zoroastrians call free will. They do not believe people should live on their own to find God (for example, in monasteries).

The conflict will not last forever. Ahura Mazda will win it in the end. When this happens, everything that Ahura Mazda created will be together with him again - even the souls of people who died or who were banished.

All bad things in the world are represented as Angra Mainyu, the "Destructive Principle". All good things are represented by Spenta Mainyu, the good spirit which Ahura Mazda created. Through Spenta Maniu, Ahura Mazda is in all humans. In this way, the Creator interacts with the world.

When Ahura Mazda created everything, he made seven "sparks", called Amesha Spentas ("Bounteous Immortals"). Each of them represents a part of Ahura Mazda's creation. These seven sparks are helped by many "lesser principles", the Yazatas. Each Yazata is "worthy of worship" and also stands for a part of the creation.

Some historians believe that the Three Wise Men (Magi) who visited Jesus after he was born were Zoroastrian priests.




