Saint Denis


Saint Denis is the patron saint of France. 

Saint Denis was the first bishop of Paris. He supposedly went there between 250 and 270. He was executed in 272. According to legend, he was beheaded. After his beheading, he walked away, his head under his arms, along what is today the Rue des Martyrs in Paris. After about , he gave his head to a pious woman, who had a basilica erected in the spot. 

Dragon

A dragon is a legendary creature, belonging to mythology and fantasy. There are stories about dragons in Chinese culture, European culture, South American culture, and many others.

There are many kinds of dragons in the different cultures. In general:


Dragons are in many stories such as How to Train Your Dragon (movie), and Harry Potter. Some stories, such as those by Anne McCaffrey, have dragons who are looking for help, or giving help. A dragon also appears in the Book of Revelation chapters 12-13, where he is seen as the Devil.


Inertia

"'Inertia" is the resistance of the object to any change in its motion, including a change in direction. An object will stay still or keep moving at the same speed and in a straight line, unless it is acted upon by an external unbalanced force.

For example, a rubber ball will not start bouncing around unless someone picks it up and throws it. Basically, if an object is not moving, it will not start moving unless something else acts upon it. The same idea can be applied to motion: an object in motion will stay in motion unless some outside, opposing force acts upon it. Inertia is also called Sir Isaac Newton's First Law of Motion. The First Law of Motion says that:


Sherlock Holmes

Sherlock Holmes is a character from books written by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. His most famous story was "The Hound of the Baskervilles".

Sherlock Holmes was "born" on 6th January 1861 , and for more than 100 years his name has been known in every country of the world; and not only his name, but his appearance too. The hawk-like features and piercing eyes; the dressing-gown and pipe; the unusual cap and magnifying glass - these details are so familiar that if he were to appear amongst us today we should know him at once.

Many of the stories were made into movies and television dramas. He is a detective who tries to find out who committed crimes. There is a monument in London dedicated to him. He has a sharp mind and solves even the most difficult and strange cases. He works with his friend Dr. Watson, a retired army officer. Holmes plays the violin and smokes a pipe. He is very smart. He first appeared in 1887 and is known for his detective skills. Sometimes he takes cocaine and morphine.

In the story "The Sign of Four", the first part is titled "The Science of Deduction". Dr. Watson admires Sherlock Holmes attention to detail and Holmes explains the importance of details that appear unimportant but can be crucial in solving a mystery. This was the first time he met with Dr. Watson, his co-detective in the year 1887.

In the second part of the story "A Study in Scarlet", Sherlock Holmes's method is explained in detail. He is the only Consulting Detective in the world and his "science of detection" is based on analysis and deduction, figuring things out from things he already knows. He is especially good at backwards reasoning (inference or abduction). From the scratches around on an old watch, he decides the man drinks a lot; in another case seeing the man's clothes are respectable but worn, he thinks the man was once successful, but has fallen on hard times and taken to drink.

Sherlock Holmes does not know a lot about literature, philosophy, astronomy and politics but he knows a lot about chemistry. He also seems to know every detail of every horror that took place in the 19th century. But from the first interaction with Dr. Watson we could infer that he is very good in botany, geology and sensational literature.

Mycroft Holmes is Sherlock Holmes' brother. He works for the government and according to Sherlock, his brother Mycroft's powers of deduction are even better than his own, and often Mycroft's word has decided national policy. Sometimes, Sherlock goes to his brother to ask for advice on some little problem. In Sherlock's own words, Mycroft is the British government.

Professor James Moriarty is Sherlock Holmes' arch enemy (chief enemy). Moriarty commits many crimes. He is a mathematical genius and worked at a small English university, before he quit and moved to London. There he became the center of organized crime (the mob) and the object of Sherlock Holmes's investigative power who considered the professor his intellectual equal. Sherlock Holmes vs (against) Moriarty represents one of the greatest battles of wits (shrewdness, intelligence, smartness) in the history of the world. Holmes spoke often of Moriarty's genius in admiration in spite of (not considering) the horror of the crimes. He spoke well of Moriarty without taking into consideration the evil side of his nature. Among Holmes other foes is Moriarty's Chief assassin Colonel Sebastian Moran ["The Adventure of the Empty House']; Dr Grimesby Roylott; ["The Adventure of the Speckled Band<nowiki>"</nowiki>]; Roger Baskerville aka Jack Stapleton ["The Hound of the Baskervilles"]; Charles Augustus Milverton ["The Adventure of Charles Augustus Milverton"]; John Clay ["The Adventure of the Red headed League<nowiki>"</nowiki>] and Irene Adler ["A Scandal in Bohemia"]

His landlady Mrs. Hudson who was genuinely fond of him.

He showed his attentiveness to Violet Hunter. He was courteous and considerate to all women.

He posed as a plumber in his wooing (courtship) of Charles Augustus Millerton's housemaid.

He was never really involved emotionally with a woman. In his own words, "I have never loved..."

In "A Scandal in Bohemia", the only case in which he fails, appears the only woman he considered his equal intellectually and the only woman who ever defeated him. Her name is Irene Adler. She was born in New Jersey and was an opera singer. She had a love affair (romance) with the king of Bohemia.

With the exception of stories published by his assistant Dr John H Watson, Holmes' name rarely appears in newspapers in connection with a case [i.e. A Study in Scarlet being the exception]. He has however accepted several honors during his lifetime. His most significant award to be received is the Legion of Honor decoration from the French Government for capturing an assassin. From Queen Victoria he declined a knighthood but accepted an emerald tiepin. From the Hereditary King of Bohemia he received an antique gold snuffbox. From the royal family of the Netherlands he received an expensive ring.

Some Sherlock Holmes books are:


York

York is a historic walled city in North Yorkshire, England. The Romans called it Eboracum, and it was the capital of the Roman province of Britannia Inferior. The Vikings called it Jorvik. 

About 154,000 people live in York. It was the traditional county town of Yorkshire but it is no longer. It is now a "unitary authority". Whatever it is called, York is still the most important city in the NorthEast of England.

The city is one of fifteen in England to have a Lord Mayor

The city has been important in many political events in its two millennia of existence. The city offers many historical attractions, of which York Minster is the most well-known. For many centuries before the railway, the distance to London meant that York acted as the capital city of the North. Only later did Liverpool on the West become as important, with the growth of sea trading across the Atlantic.

The city was founded by the Romans as Eboracum in 71 AD. 
Its position where the rivers Ouse and Fosse converge was likely one of the reasons the site was chosen.

It was later the capital of the kingdoms of Northumbria and Jorvik. In the Middle Ages, York grew as a major wool trading centre and became the capital of the northern province of the Church of England,

The centre of York is medieval. It has famous old streets and a cathedral called York Minster. To the west of York is Leeds, Wetherby and Harrogate. To the south of York is Selby, and to the east of York is Scarborough.

York is home to the Archbishop of York, a high-ranking cleric in the Church of England who is second only to the Archbishop of Canterbury. The current Archbishop of York is Stephen Cottrell, who has held the post since July 2020.

There are many cultural and sporting activities making it a popular tourist destination for millions.

North Yorkshire

North Yorkshire is a large county in the region of Yorkshire in Northern Europe.

North Yorkshire is part of one bigger county called Yorkshire. The three parts of Yorkshire are called the West Riding, the East Riding, and the North Riding. in 1974, the names changed. The "North Riding" changed to "North Yorkshire". The other main parts of Yorkshire are now South Yorkshire, West Yorkshire, and the East Riding of Yorkshire.

The largest city in North Yorkshire is York. York is now (since 1996) a unitary authority, it is not officially part of North Yorkshire.

North Yorkshire is the largest county in England. It has several towns. It also has many open green areas and hills, so two of the 11 UK national parks (the North York Moors and most of the Yorkshire Dales) are in North Yorkshire.

Pig Latin

Pig Latin is a language code or game and is most often used by children who speak English. 

The usual rules are:

Pig Latin that one writes is sometimes written with dashes, between the first part and the "c-ay" letters, and sometimes it is not. A sentence can be "Is-thay is-ay an-ay example-ay of-ay Ig-pay Atin-lay ith-way ashes-day", or "Isthay isay anay exampleay ofay Igpay Atinlay ithoutway ashesday."

In Pig Latin, this sentence:

comes to mean:

The British name for Pig Latin is "backslang".


Binary number

The binary numeral system is a way to write numbers using only two digits: 0 and 1. These are used in computers as a series of "off" and "on" switches. In binary, each digit's place value is twice as much as that of the next digit to the right (since each digit holds two values). In decimal - the system that humans normally use - each digit holds ten values, and the place value increases by a power of ten (ones, tens, hundreds, etc.). The place value of the rightmost digit, in either case, is 1.
Example: 10110011


Adding together all the place values that have 1s, it would be 1+2+16+32+128 = 179. For convenience, binary digits (bits, for short) are usually grouped together in two groups of 4 bits. This is 8 bits, or a byte, and is written using the hexadecimal numeral system. This would be shown as 1011 0011 = B3.

Arithmetic is a way of adding together two or more binary numbers. There are four rules in binary arithmetic. They are:

"0" + "0" = "0"
<br>"1" + "0" = "1"
<br>"1" + "1" = "10" (2)
<br>"1" + "1" + "1" = "11" (3)

This is because in binary there are only two digits; 0 and 1. Because of this, the number two and three have to be represented in some other way. This is how the binary value for three is calculated:
This shows that the binary value would be "11".

Binary is a numbering system that is a series of 1s and 0s meaning (to the computers) on and off. It is base two and our number system (decimal) is base ten, where ten numerals are used rather than two.

In 1817 John Leslie (a Scottish mathematician) suggested that primitive societies may have evolved counting with objects (like pebbles) before they had even words to describe the total number of objects involved. The next step in the evolution of counting would have been the discovery that this pile of objects could be reduced into two piles of equal measures (leaving either 0 objects left over or just a remainder of 1). This remainder (odd = 1 or even = 0) would then be recorded and one of the piles removed whilst the second pile was then further divided into two sub piles. If you record the remainder left over after the original pile has been divided in two and continue repeating this process; of sub dividing one of the remaining piles into half and then removing one of those piles and continue by subdividing the remaining pile into two piles you will ultimately be left with just either 2 or 3 objects. If you record the remainder left over (odd = 1 or even = 0) at the end of each reduction you will eventually be left with a tally record of 1's and 0's which will be the binary representation of your original pile of objects. So instead of representing your original pile of objects with a repeating number or marks or tokens (which for large numbers could be quite long) you have reduced your pile of objects into more compact binary number. If you need to recover the original number of objects from this summarised binary number it is easy enough to do; by simply starting with the first tally mark and then doubling it and adding one if the next binary number contains a 1 and then continuing the process until the end of the binary number is reached. So binary counting may be both the oldest and the most modern method of counting.

Binary was invented by many people but the modern binary number system is credited to Gottfried Leibniz in 1679, a German mathematician. Binary has been used in nearly everything electronic; from calculators to supercomputers. Machine code is binary digits.


You can translate binary to normal numbers using

formula_1

Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door

Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door (or, as it is nicknamed, Paper Mario 2) is a Nintendo GameCube role-playing game released in 2004. It won the IGN.com award for best RPG game of the year. It uses the setting of Nintendo's "Mario" games.

Princess Peach finds a map in an old town filled with crime. Mario sets off to the town of Rogueport, where he finds the Crystal Stars. There is a door deep in the sewers of Rogueport (the Thousand-Year Door) which will open if all the crystal stars are collected. It is said that a demonic spirit rests behind the door. The X-Nauts (a group of robot-like people) try to steal all of the crystal stars in order to awaken an evil demon to wipe out the planet so that they can become dictators of the world.

The game had good reviews.

Nickname

A nickname is a special name that a person may be called that is different from their real name or from their birth name. It is not a legal thing; it is a social thing. The name may be given to them by their friends or family. It may be like the person's real name or completely different. Nicknames often come from how a person looks, or from something they are especially known for doing. They can also be a shortened version of the given name.

Nicknames can also be unkind and rude, and used by people who dislike the person given the nickname. Often famous people are given nicknames by the writers of newspapers or other people in the media, such as TV. In Thailand, people are often given nicknames based on how they look. For example, someone can be called ผู้ชายสูง (phuchay sung) meaning being tall. Nicknames can also be given to people in countries. For example, people from the United States or from the northern United States are sometimes called "Yankees". Nicknames can also be given to tribes. For example, the Dhulbahante tribe are often called "reer Darawiish". That's because the former anti-colonial Dervish state was a Dhulbahante state.

Martin Luther King Jr.

Martin Luther King, Jr. (born Michael King, Jr.; January 15, 1929 – April 4, 1968) was an American pastor, activist, humanitarian, and leader in the Civil Rights Movement. He was best known for improving civil rights by using nonviolent civil disobedience, based on his Christian beliefs. Because he was both a Ph.D. and a pastor King is sometimes called the Reverend Doctor Martin Luther King Jr. (abbreviation: the Rev. Dr. King), or just Dr King. He is also known by his initials MLK. He was the pastor of the Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta, Georgia.

King worked hard to make people understand that not only black people but that all races should always be treated equally to white people. He gave speeches to encourage African Americans to protest without using violence.

Led by Dr. King and others, many African Americans used nonviolent, peaceful strategies to fight for their civil rights. These strategies included sit-ins, boycotts, and protest marches. Often, they were attacked by white police officers or people who did not want African Americans to have more rights. However, no matter how badly they were attacked, Dr. King and his followers never fought back.

King also helped to organize the 1963 March on Washington, where he delivered his "I Have a Dream" speech. The next year, he won the Nobel Peace Prize.

King fought for equal rights from the start of the Montgomery Bus Boycott in 1955 until he was murdered by James Earl Ray in April 1968.

Family: The members of his family include Dexter (d. 2024).

Michael King, Jr. was born at 501 Auburn Avenue in Atlanta, Georgia, on January 15, 1929. Although the name "Michael" appeared on his birth certificate, his name was later changed to Martin Luther in honor of German reformer Martin Luther.

As King was growing up, everything in Georgia was segregated, 70 years after the Confederacy was defeated and blacks were later separated away from white people. This meant that black and white people were not allowed to go to the same schools, use the same public bathrooms, eat at the same restaurants, drink at the same water fountains, or even go to the same hospitals. Everything was separated. However, the white hospitals, schools, and other places were usually much better than the places where black people were allowed to go.

At age 6, King first went through discrimination (being treated worse than a white person because he was black). He was sent to an all-black school, and a white friend was sent to an all-white school.

Once, when he was 14, King won a contest with a speech about civil rights. When he was going back home on a bus, he was forced to give up his seat and stand for the bus ride so a white person could sit down. At the time, white people were seen as more important than black people. If a white person wanted a seat, that person could take the seat from any African American. King later said having to give up his seat made him "the angriest I've ever been in my life."

King went to segregated schools in Georgia, and finished high school at age 15. He went on to Morehouse College in Georgia, where his father and grandfather had gone. After graduating from college in 1948, King decided he was not exactly the type of person to join the Baptist Church. He was not sure what kind of career he wanted. He thought about being a doctor or a lawyer. He decided not to do either, and joined the Baptist Church.

King went to a seminary in Pennsylvania to become a pastor. While studying there, King learned about the non-violent methods used by Mahatma Gandhi against the British Empire in India. King was convinced that these non-violent methods would help the civil rights movement.

Finally, in 1955, King earned a Ph.D. from Boston University's School of Theology.

King first started his civil rights activism in 1955. At that time, he led a protest against the way black people were segregated on buses. They had to sit at the back of the bus, separate from white people. He told his supporters, and the people who were against equal rights, that people should only use peaceful ways to solve the problem.
King was chosen as president of the Montgomery Improvement Association (MIA), which was created during the boycott. Rosa Parks later said: "Dr. King was chosen in part because he was relatively new to the community and so [he] did not have any enemies." King ended up becoming an important leader of the boycott, becoming famous around the country, and making many enemies.

King was arrested for starting a boycott. He was fined $500, plus $500 more in court costs. His house was fire-bombed. Others involved with MIA were also threatened. However, by December 1956, segregation had been ended on Montgomery's buses. People could sit anywhere they wanted on the buses.

After the bus boycott, King and Ralph Abernathy started the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC). The group decided that they would only use non-violence. Its motto was "Not one hair of one head of one person should be harmed." The SCLC chose King as its president.

In 1963, King helped plan the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom. This was the largest protest for human rights in United States history. On August 28, 1963, about 250,000 people marched from the Washington Monument to the Lincoln Memorial. Then they listened to civil rights leaders speak. King was the last speaker. His speech, called "I Have a Dream," became one of history's most famous civil rights speeches. King talked about his dream that one day, white and black people would be equal.

That same year, the United States government passed the Civil Rights Act. This law made many kinds of discrimination against black people illegal. The March on Washington made it clear to the United States government that they needed to take action on civil rights, and it helped get the Civil Rights Act passed.

In 1964, King was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. When presenting him with the award, the Chairman of the Nobel Committee said:
"Today, now that mankind [has] the atom bomb, the time has come to lay our weapons and armaments aside and listen to the message Martin Luther King has given us[:] "The choice is either nonviolence or nonexistence"..."
<br>
"[King] is the first person in the Western world to have shown us that a struggle can be waged without violence. He is the first to make the message of brotherly love a reality in the course of his struggle, and he has brought this message to all men, to all nations and races." 

King and many others then started working on the problem of racism in voting. At the time, many of the Southern states had laws which made it very hard or impossible for African-Americans to vote. For example, they would make African Americans pay extra taxes, pass reading tests, or pass tests about the Constitution. White people did not have to do these things.

In 1963 and 1964, civil rights groups in Selma, Alabama had been trying to sign African-American people up to vote, but they had not been able to. At the time, 99% of the people signed up to vote in Selma were white. However, the government workers who signed up voters were all white. They refused to sign up African-Americans. In January 1965, these civil rights groups asked King and the SCLC to help them. Together, they started working on voting rights. However, the next month, an African-American man named Jimmie Lee Jackson was shot by a police officer during a peaceful march. Jackson died. Many African-American people were very angry.
The SCLC decided to organize a march from Selma to Montgomery. By walking 54 miles (87 kilometers) to the state capital, activists hoped to show how badly African-Americans wanted to vote. They also wanted to show that they would not let racism or violence stop them from getting equal rights.

The first march was on March 7, 1965. Police officers, and people they had chosen to help them, attacked the marchers with clubs and tear gas. They threatened to throw the marchers off the Edmund Pettus Bridge. Seventeen marchers had to go to the hospital, and 50 others were also injured. This day came to be called Bloody Sunday. Pictures and film of the marchers being beaten were shown around the world, in newspapers and on television. Seeing these things made more people support the civil rights activists. People came from all over the United States to march with the activists. One of them, James Reeb, was attacked by white people for supporting civil rights. He died on March 11, 1965.

Finally, President Lyndon B. Johnson decided to send soldiers from the United States Army and the Alabama National Guard to protect the marchers. From March 21 to March 25, the marchers walked along the "Jefferson Davis Highway" from Selma to Montgomery. Led by King and other leaders, 25,000 people who entered Montgomery on March 25. He gave a speech called "How Long? Not Long" at the Alabama State Capitol. He told the marchers that it would not be long before they had equal rights, "because the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice."

On August 6, 1965, the United States passed the Voting Rights Act. This law made it illegal to stop somebody from voting because of their race.

After this, King continued to fight poverty and the Vietnam War.

King had made enemies by working for civil rights and becoming such a powerful leader. The Ku Klux Klan did what they could to hurt King's reputation, especially in the South. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) watched King closely. They wiretapped his phones, his home, and the phones and homes of his friends.

On April 4, 1968, King was in Memphis, Tennessee. He planned to lead a protest march to support garbage workers who were on strike. At 6:01 pm, he was shot while he was standing on the balcony of his motel room. The bullet entered through his right cheek and travelled down his neck. It cut open the biggest veins and arteries in King's neck before stopping in his shoulder.

King was rushed to St. Joseph's Hospital. His heart had stopped. Doctors there cut open his chest and tried to make his heart start pumping again. However, they were unable to save King's life as he died at 7:05 p.m.

King's death led to riots in many cities.

In March 1969, James Earl Ray was found guilty of killing King. He was sentenced to 99 years in prison. Ray died in 1998.

Just days after King's death, Congress passed the Civil Rights Act of 1968. Title VIII of the Act, usually called the Fair Housing Act, made it illegal to discriminate in housing because of a person's race, religion, or home country. (For example, this made it illegal for a realtor to refuse to let a black family buy a house in a white neighborhood.) This law was seen as a tribute to King's last few years of work fighting housing discrimination in the United States.
After his death, King was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom. King and his wife were also awarded the Congressional Gold Medal.

In 1986, the United States government created a national holiday in King's honor. It is called Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. It is celebrated on the third Monday in January. This is around the time of King's birthday. Many people fought for the holiday to be created, including singer Stevie Wonder.

In 2003, the United States Congress passed a law allowing the beginning words of King's "I Have a Dream" speech to be carved into the Lincoln Memorial.

King County in the state of Washington, is named after King. Originally, the county was named after William R. King, an American politician who owned slaves. In 2005, the King County government decided the county would now be named after Martin Luther King, Jr. Two years later, they changed their official logo to include a picture of King.

More than 900 streets in the United States have also been named after King. These streets exist in 40 different states; Washington, D.C., Puerto Rico. and many others

In 2011, a memorial statue of King was put up on the National Mall in Washington, D.C.

There are also memorials for King around the world. These include:


Jumanji

Jumanji is a 1995 American fantasy adventure comedy movie starring Robin Williams, which was based loosely on a 1982 children's book of the same name by Chris Van Allsburg. It is about a boy who gets trapped in a game for 30 years, and must finish playing the game when he gets out. Other stars include Kirsten Dunst, David Alan Grier, Bonnie Hunt, Bradley Pierce, Jonathan Hyde, and Bebe Neuwirth. In the "Flying Hunter Van Pelt" scene, Roland D-50's PN-D50-02 patch "Fast Forward" was heard.

The game in the movie (titled Jumanji) has been made into a real game.

Its sequel is the 2017 movie "", with different actors.

Neopets

Neopets is a website that lets its users create virtual pets, and take care of them. The site was created on November 15 1999, and has hundreds of millions of users. The website is owned by Jumpstart. Most of the pets that the user can create are not real animals, but are based upon real animals. Neopets has story plots, chat boards, and different things that users can do with their Neopets. Many people of many different ages join Neopets. The site has many games that the user can play. Neopets has a help section to find answers to many of the questions that users may have. The games length varies from a minute or less to saveable games like Neoquest that take more than 10 hours total to complete.

A person can make a pet and care for it using items. Items are given when a person does activities on the website. Items can also be purchased using Neopoints, the website's form of money. They can get special items called paint brushes which change the color of the pet to a different special color.

People younger than thirteen years old have less access to website features. They are not allowed to use the forum or send messages to other people.
Default avatars are the easiest type of avatar to get. Once a person creates an account on Neopets, they get to use the default avatars without having to do anything. Default avatars are mainly the different pets that can be used on the site and certain faeries.

Clickable avatars are the second easiest avatar to get. To earn a Clickable, the user must go to a certain place on the site. Once the user has gone to that page, they get a message that says they can use that avatar.

Many avatars have to be earned. These are the avatars that people want most. These avatars are the hardest to get. These avatars may be gotten in many different ways. For example, getting a certain score in a game, buying a specific item, looking up a pet, refreshing, or getting a set amount of Neopoints.

There are many websites created by Neopets users to help other players. These sites help with information about how to play games and how to get avatars. There are also many sites for users to find ways to change the look of the pages that tell about themselves and their pets.


Queen Victoria

Queen Victoria (Alexandrina Victoria; 24 May 1819 – 22 January 1901) was the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland from 1837 until her death in 1901. She reigned for 63 years and 216 days, until she was surpassed by her great-great granddaughter Queen Elizabeth ll. 

She was taught by her governess, Louise Lehzen, and Reverend George Davys. She learned to speak and read German and French well. Queen Victoria enjoyed dancing, drawing, horse riding and singing. She had lessons as a child from the famous opera singer Luigi LaBlache. She liked to paint and could play the piano. She kept a regular diary throughout her life. 

Victoria married her first cousin, Prince Albert, in 1840. He supported science, trade and art in Britain. Victoria and Albert had nine children. They believed that a good family life and Christianity were very important. In general, English people followed their example. 

The Great Exhibition at Crystal Palace opened in 1851. It happened partly because of Albert's hard work. The exhibition showed the success of British people in Victorian times.

In 1861, Prince Albert died and Victoria stayed away from public life. 

Britain became more powerful in the following years, and in 1877, Victoria got the title Empress of India. Victoria was very interested in India, but she never went there to the subcontinent. Her son went there instead. 

In 1897, Victoria celebrated 60 years of being monarch. This surpassed her grandfather King George III. She was queen for 63 years, seven months longer than any other king or queen of Britain. People called her the 'grandmother of Europe' because many of Victoria's children became kings, princes and princesses of other countries. 

After she died from a brain haemorrhage, her son Albert Edward became King Edward VII became King of the United Kingdom and Emperor of India from 22 January 1901 to 6 May 1910.


Freak the Mighty

Freak the Mighty is a young adult fiction novel by Rodman Philbrick. Published in 1993, it was followed by the novel "Max the Mighty" in 1998. The primary characters are friends Maxwell Kane, a large, very slow, but kind-hearted kid and his friend Kevin Avery, nicknamed “Freak,” who is physically crippled but very intelligent. (In the Book, Kevin's last name is Avery. However, in the movie, his last name was changed to Dillon. Kevin is diagnosed with Morquio syndrome.)

The novel was adapted for the screen by Charles Leavitt; the movie was shot in Toronto, Canada and Cincinnati, Ohio, and directed by Peter Chelsom, and released in 1998.

In the beginning of the book, Maxwell "Max" Kane is a boy with low self-esteem, like his father; they are both "slow". He lives with his grandparents Grim and Gram. Max thinks of himself as stupid and he is in a disabled class. People are afraid of him because he looks like his father, "Killer Kane," a convicted murderer. Max sets the stage for the story by reminiscing about his time in daycare, when he was known as Kicker and Kevin, the other major character, was known as Freak. Kevin was always different because he was small and needed crutches and then leg braces to walk. But Max respected him even back then for his death glare and thought the crutches and leg braces were cool. Many years later when Max is in middle school, the real story begins.

Max finds out that people are moving into the house next door. The new neighbors turn out to be Freak and his mother Gwen, who Freak calls "The Fair Gwen" after King Arthur's wife. The boys make friends. They go to the Fourth of July fireworks together, and puts Freak on his shoulders so he can see. The local tough guy, Tony D. "Blade", chases the two with his gang because Freak called him a cretin. With Max's size and speed and Freak's directions and master plan of running into the pond, they keep themselves safe until they are rescued by the police. After this incident, Freak starts riding on Max's shoulders. They call their combined form "Freak the Mighty". The friendship is good for them both; they stick up for each other and Kevin even teaches Max to read and learn properly. They go on adventures such as going to the hospital which Freak claims has a secret department called the "Bionics Department" which has had his brain cat scanned to be fitted into an artificial body. On one adventure they find a woman's purse in the sewer. They return it to the woman who is called Loretta Lee. Loretta is the wife of Iggy Lee, boss of the Panheads, a motorcycle gang who "struck fear in everyone, even the cops", as Max puts it. She loved to eat weird things like cowpie and a lot of disgusting things because that's how her gang was. Iggy says that the two of them once knew Max's father. They want to "have some fun" with the boys but change their minds because they are afraid that Max's father will get angry. They are afraid of Max's father even though he's serving a life sentence. They also reveal that Kevin's father left once he heard his son had a birth defect.

At school, Freak nearly dies when he chokes after eating American chop suey. Max alerts the nurse. Freak is taken to the hospital. Later, Grim reveals to Max that his father has been let out on parole. Throughout the story, it has been slowly revealed that Max's father killed his mother by strangling her, and that Grim and Gram hate him and are afraid of Max ending up like him. Max is shocked and scared by the news of his father's parole. Freak returns from the hospital and the two celebrate Christmas Eve together. After Christmas Eve, Max is woken up by his father, Killer Kane, who has come to kidnap him. After Max is kidnapped by his father, the two drive to Iggy Lee's apartment in the "New Testaments" (really tenements). Killer Kane is even bigger than Max and acts in a very threatening, intimidating manner towards everyone, including his son, who he keeps tied up. Killer Kane swears on the Bible that he did not murder Max's mother. He also reveals that he plans to head to "warmer weather" and be a con man. At night he leaves Max alone, tied up in a room in the apartment of an old lady on vacation. Loretta, shocked that Kane would do something like that to his own child, tries to help him escape. Killer Kane catches her and starts to strangle her. Max attempts to stop him and reveals that he witnessed his father kill his mother in the same fashion. Kane gives up on training Max to be his obedient assistant and tries to kill him, but Freak arrives just in time and saves Max by squirting Kane with a squirt gun he claims is filled with sulfuric acid when in fact, it is filled with soap, vinegar, and curry powder. The police are waiting outside, and Killer Kane goes back to prison, this time until he's an old man.

In the spring after the attack, Kevin celebrates his and Freak the Mighty's birthday. Soon after, Freak dies in the hospital after telling Max to record all of their adventures. Max goes crazy when he hears the news and is furious at the doctors for promising Kevin a robotic body to save him. The doctor explains that that was just a story Kevin told himself, and he always knew he was going to die young. He looked up his condition in a medical dictionary (Freak loved words and carried a dictionary around all the time). Max mourns Freak for weeks and won't stop. With Loretta Lee's encouragement, Max eventually starts to heal and writes a book about the adventures of Freak the Mighty, in accordance with Freak's final wishes.

Daniel Handler

Daniel Handler (born February 28, 1970) is the real name of Lemony Snicket, author of the popular "A Series of Unfortunate Events" books. He graduated from Lowell High School and from Wesleyan University in 1992. He is a native of San Francisco and went to the San Francisco Boys Chorus. He calls himself the fake name of Lemony Snicket in the books, as well as in Lemony's autobiography. The autobiography is listed as fiction. After several years of writing the books, Daniel let the public know that he was behind the name of Lemony Snicket.

He is married to Lisa Brown and had their first child, Otto, in October 2003. He finished 13 books to complete the Series of Unfortunate Events.

It is also believed by some people that his wife, author and illustrator Lisa Brown could possibly be the "Beatrice" that Handler writes his books for.

Global warming

Global warming is the rise in temperature of the air and oceans globally. It is happening mainly because humans burn coal, oil, and natural gas; and cut down forests. Average temperatures today are about higher than before people started burning a lot of coal around 1750. In some parts of the world it is less, and in some, more. Most climate scientists say that by the year 2100, temperatures will be to higher than they were before 1750. 

Global warming is a significant and rapidly accelerating issue caused by human activities, such as greenhouse gas emissions, deforestation, and the burning of fossil fuels. It is having a profound impact on the environment and our planet. The present global warming is mostly because of people burning things, like gasoline for cars and natural gas to keep houses warm. But the heat from the burning itself only makes the world a tiny bit warmer: "it is the carbon dioxide from the burning which is the biggest part of the problem". Among greenhouse gases, the increase of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is the main cause of global warming. Svante Arrhenius predicted this more than a hundred years ago. Arrhenius confirmed the work of Joseph Fourier 200 years ago. 

When people burn fossil fuels like coal, oil and natural gas this adds carbon dioxide into the air. This is because fossil fuels contain lots of carbon and burning means joining most of the atoms in the fuel with oxygen. When people cut down many trees (deforestation), this means less carbon dioxide is taken out of the atmosphere by those plants. Animals which have four places in their stomachs, like cows and sheep, also cause global warming, because their burps contain a greenhouse gas called methane.

As the Earth's surface temperature becomes hotter the sea level rises. This is partly because water over expands when it gets warmer. It is also partly because warm temperatures make glaciers and ice caps melt. The sea level rise causes coastal areas to flood. Weather patterns, including where and how much rain or snow there is, are changing. Deserts will probably get bigger. Colder areas will warm up faster than warm areas. Strong storms may become more likely and farming may not make as much food. These changes will not be the same everywhere.

In the Paris Agreement almost all governments agreed to keep temperature rise below , but current plans are not enough to limit global warming that much. People in government and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) are talking about global warming. But governments, companies, and other people do not agree on what to do about it. Some things that could reduce warming are to burn less fossil fuels, grow more trees, eat less meat, and put some carbon dioxide back in the ground. People could adapt to some temperature change. A few people think nothing should change.

Climate change has happened constantly over the history of the Earth, including the coming and going of ice ages. But modern climate change is different because people are putting carbon dioxide into the atmosphere more quickly than before.

Since the 1800s, people have recorded the daily temperature. By about 1850, there were enough places measuring temperature so that scientists could know the global average temperature. Compared with before people started burning a lot of coal for industry, the temperature has risen by about . In 1979, satellites started measuring the temperature of the Earth.

Before 1850, there were not enough temperature measurements for us to know how warm or cold it was. Climatologists measure other things to try to figure out past temperatures before there were thermometers. This means measuring things that change when it gets colder or warmer. One way is to cut into a tree and measure how far apart the growth rings are. Trees that live a long time can give us an idea of how temperature and rain changed while they were alive.

For most of the past 2000 years the average temperature of the world didn't change much. There were some times where the temperatures were a little warmer or cooler in some places. One of the most famous warm times was the Medieval Warm Period and one of the most famous cool times was the Little Ice Age (not really an ice age). Tree ring dating can only help scientists work out the temperature back to about 10,000 years ago. Ice cores are used to find out all the temperature back to almost a million years ago, and for some times to over 4 million years ago.

There are several greenhouse gases that cause the Earth to warm. The most important one is carbon dioxide (CO). CO comes from power plants which burn coal and natural gas to make electricity. Cars also emit CO when they burn petrol. About 35 billion tons of carbon dioxide are released into the Earth's atmosphere each year. The amount of CO in the air is about 50% more than it was around 1750. About three-quarters of the CO that people have put in the air during the past 20 years are due to burning fossil fuel like coal or oil. The rest mostly comes from changes in how land is used, like cutting down trees.

The second most important greenhouse gas is methane. A tonne of methane is much more warming than a tonne of CO but methane stays in the atmosphere for only about ten years. About 40% comes from nature, like wetlands; and the rest is because of humans, like cows, landfill and leaks when oil and gas are produced.

Dust in the air may come from natural sources such as volcanos, erosion and meteoric dust. Some of this dust falls out within a few hours. Some is aerosol, so small that it could stay in the air for years. The aerosol particles in the atmosphere make the earth colder. The effect of dust therefore cancels out some of the effects of greenhouse gases. Even though humans also put aerosols in the air when they burn coal or oil this only cancels out the greenhouse effect of the fuel burning for less than 20 years: however the carbon dioxide stays in the atmosphere much longer and keeps on warming the earth.

When people burn stuff like the aerosols, for example smoke, are bad because when people breath them they make people ill. But some people say that in a climate change emergency the Earth could be kept cool by reflecting some sunlight back into space, for example by putting aerosols very high in the air or making clouds whiter. They say this would give more time to do a proper fix. This is so easy and cheap that even a middle-size country could do it. But there are a lot of problems: for example it might be good for that country but bad for some other countries.

Global warming can make dangerous heatwaves. 

Some people burn less fossil fuel. Countries try to emit less greenhouse gases. The Kyoto Protocol was signed in 1997. It was meant to reduce the amount of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere to below their levels in 1990. However, carbon dioxide levels have continued to rise.

Energy conservation is used to burn less fossil fuel. People can also use energy sources that don't burn fossil fuel, like solar panels or electricity from nuclear power or wind power. Or they can prevent the carbon dioxide from getting out into the atmosphere, which is called carbon capture and storage (CCS).

People can change how they live because of the effect of climate change. For example, they can go to places where the weather is better, or build walls around cities to keep flood water out. This cost money, and rich people and rich countries will be able to change more easily than the poor.

As early as the 1820s some scientists were discussing climate change: sunlight heats the surface of the Earth, and Joseph Fourier suggested that some of the heat radiated from the surface is trapped by the atmosphere before it can escape into space. This is called the greenhouse effect. 

In 1856 Eunice Newton Foote did tests which showed that the warming effect of the Sun is greater for air with water vapour than for dry air, and that the effect is even greater with carbon dioxide. So she said that "An atmosphere of that gas would give to our earth a high temperature...". 
Starting in 1859, John Tyndall showed that nitrogen and oxygen—together totaling 99% of dry air—are transparent to radiated heat. However, water vapour and gases such as methane and carbon dioxide absorb radiated heat and re-radiate that heat into the atmosphere. Tyndall suggested that changes in the concentration of these gases may have caused climatic changes in the past, including ice ages. In 1896, Svante Arrhenius tried to prove that it would take thousands of years for the industrial production of CO to raise the Earth’s temperature 5-6°C. 

In the mid 20th century, scientists worked out that there was a 10% increase in carbon dioxide in the atmosphere over the 19th century, which made it a bit warmer. It was at this time that people believed the emissions of CO would increase exponentially in the future and the oceans would absorb any surplus of greenhouse gases. In 1956, Gilbert N. Plass decided that greenhouse gas emissions would have an effect on the Earth’s temperature. He argued that not thinking about GHG emissions would be a mistake. Soon after, scientists studying all different kinds of science began to work together to figure out the mystery of GHG emissions and their effects. As technology advanced, it was in the 1980s that there was proof of a rise in CO levels. An ice core, captured through drilling, provided clear evidence that carbon dioxide levels have risen.

The climate of the Earth will never be absolutely stable because there are small but unpredictable variations in the Earth's orbit about the Sun. In the deep past there have also been large changes in the Earth's atmosphere.

Sea level is rising because water over expands when it gets warmer. Probably more important is the melting of ice sheets. The Antarctica and Greenland ice sheets are melting. Sea level will rise between half and one meter by 2100, and between 2 and 7 meter by 2300.

Low-lying areas such as Bangladesh, Florida, the Netherlands and other areas face massive flooding.

Many cities are sea ports and under threat of flooding if the present sea level rises.

These and the other cities have either started trying to deal with rising sea level and related storm surge, or are discussing this, according to .

All other coastal cities are in some danger.




