Light pollution


Light pollution is a type of pollution. It is defined as “any adverse (or bad) effect as a result of man-made lights.” Usually, this means too much light. Several species, including plants and humans, are badly affected by light pollution. Most people have never heard of light pollution, and those who have usually don’t care, or do anything about it. Light pollution costs Americans billions of dollars every year.

There are five kinds of light pollution:

Sky glow usually has more of an effect on the environment than light trespass and glare, but all of them are a major problem to people today.

Sky glow is the kind of light pollution that prevents people from seeing stars and other deep-space objects. This causes birds to not be able to migrate to the right place because they can not follow the moon and stars. Sky glow also prevents astronomers from seeing dim objects.

Light trespass is when light being used by a person goes into the property of another. Although light trespass is not an environmental issue, it is still light pollution.

The third kind of light pollution, glare, has different kinds. The first, disability glare, is the loss of visibility because of too many lights. Discomfort glare is when the lights cause pain.

Light pollution stops migrating birds from having any way of seeing the moon and stars that they need to use to navigate the direction of their migration, therefore not being able to migrate to the correct place. Also, sea turtles do not come to shore and nest as often, because they are afraid of the lights. It also affects animals eyes as a flash of camera weakens the eyesight of animals.

Glare causes sleep problems in humans. For example, too much light in an apartment shining in from a nearby billboard will disturb their sleep. Science, too, is being affected by light pollution. Astronomers have no way of observing or making discoveries with too much light to block the night sky.
Light pollution also causes headaches when light directly falls into our eyes and affects the sensory nerves.

There are now several groups that are trying to prevent light pollution. Light pollution first made news in 1964, when an observatory was specially placed just to avoid light pollution. However, it wasn’t brought to the attention of most people until June 6, 2002, when the Czech Republic passed the world’s first light pollution law. Since then, light pollution is slowly being recognized by the general public as a major problem.

Also government should pay attention for advertisements, which produce the greatest amount of light.

You can lower the amount of light pollution by having lights off when they are not needed. You can also shield yourself from this pollution by putting curtains on a window facing the street or any other disturbing light source.
We can also use automatic lights. If we come in range of it, it will turn on, otherwise it stays off. This way we can save electricity and reduce light pollution.

Nintendo

Nintendo made many of the most popular and best-selling consoles of all time, like the Game Boy, Nintendo DS, Wii and Nintendo Switch. Altogether, Nintendo has sold over 700 million consoles (2018) and over 5 billion games (2022).

Nintendo was formed on September 23, 1889. Originally, they were a company that made playing cards. Then it went on to making toys. In the 1960s, they started doing other things, such as owning hotels. They began making video games only in the 1970s. In 1980, they came out with a hand-held game device called Game and Watch. Nintendo's first video game console was the Color TV Game. 

Famicom, Nintendo's second console, was first only released in Japan. It was later released in some other areas, such as North America and Europe. When they released it in there, its name was changed to "Nintendo Entertainment System", or NES for short. They also released some popular stand-alone video games, with names like the arcade game "Donkey Kong", and NES games "Super Mario Bros.", "Duck Hunt", and "The Legend of Zelda". Later, the company made hand-held game consoles such as the Game Boy, "DS", and "3DS" and home consoles such as Nintendo 64, GameCube, Wii, Wii U, and Switch. Nintendo later sold newer consoles, and a changing point happened with the Nintendo 64, or N64, which made the first Nintendo 3D games. One of its biggest games is Super Mario 64.

Today, Nintendo has many popular characters and series. "Super Mario" and "The Legend of Zelda" are examples of these.

Nintendo currently sells the 3DS and the Nintendo Switch. In March 2011 of February 26 2012, Nintendo released their new handheld system in Japan, the United States, and Europe, the Nintendo 3DS. It was the first system to have 3D without special 3D glasses. On the date of July 28 2012, Nintendo released a bigger update called the 3DS XL. The 3DS XL had a new anti-glare screen, a top screen that was 90% bigger than the old 3DS, and had a matte plastic finish instead of a glossy metal one. This meant that scratches and fingerprints could not be seen as easily, but it can be broken more easily and it is not as durable. The successor to the Wii U, the Nintendo Switch, released on March 3, 2017 in Japan, the United States, and Europe. The Nintendo Switch is unique in the sense that it can be played on both a TV and on the go. The Switch can be played on the TV by sliding the tablet into its dock and removing the two controllers on the side of the tablet to create a more traditional controller.

Other video game companies:

Notes


São Paulo

São Paulo (Portuguese for "Saint Paul") is the capital of the state of São Paulo, Brazil. It is the biggest city in South America and the Southern Hemisphere and the second biggest city in the Western Hemisphere (after Mexico City).
São Paulo is a major city in Brazil with a population of over 12 million people. It has been criticized for its high cost of living and was ranked one of the world’s ugliest cities according to Forbes in 2013 and Harvard Business Review in 2015. A study by the Instituto Locomotiva found that nearly half of São Paulo's residents would leave the city if they could, due to the high cost of living and other factors. Another study by the United Nations Human Settlements Programme found that São Paulo had the second-highest housing cost in the world, after Hong Kong. The average amount of time lost in traffic by workers in São Paulo is approximately three hours per day. According to the São Paulo City Traffic Performance Index, time lost in traffic is the main reason why people are not satisfied with their quality of life in the city. The CNT (Brazilian National Transportation Company) estimates that on average, a resident of São Paulo loses 374 days of their lifetime in traffic, which is considered one of the worst averages in the world. The city concentrates almost 1/4 of all homeless people in Brazil according to the "Observatório Brasileiro de Políticas Públicas com a População em Situação de Rua, da Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais (Polos-UFMG)", and currently has a serious drug problem epidemic with hundreds of thousands of people addicted to drugs living in the city, including several crack addicted people living on the streets especially in the central region of São Paulo.

The city has an area of 1,523 km² and more than 11 million people live there. It is the 11th most populous city on Earth.

In January 25, 1554, two priests, Manuel da Nóbrega and José de Anchieta, built a school - "Colégio de São Paulo de Piratininga" - to convert natives to Catholic religion. Today, this building is the Padre Anchieta Museum.

The first people moved to the region in 1560, when São Paulo became a village.

Because São Paulo was a poor village and was far away from the colony centre, the "bandeirantes" (explorers) chose it to start expeditions to enslave natives, recapture runaway slaves, and to find precious metals and stones (gold, diamonds, etc.).

In 1711, São Paulo became a city. In the end of the 18th century, people started growing sugarcane in the rural area of the province, and São Paulo was the way to the port of Santos.
In the 19th century, after the construction of São Paulo's Law School, São Paulo became the capital of the province, politicians and philosophers went there, and the first newspapers and books were printed. At this time, many European immigrants, especially Italians, moved to São Paulo to work at the big coffee plantations.

At the end of the 19th century and the start of the 20th century, the city grew quickly. Some people who study Brazilian History says "the city was rebuilt".

In the 20th century, many factories were built, and more immigrants moved to work there.

Today, São Paulo is a centre of commerce, services and technology, and some people consider it the most important Latin American city.

The current mayor of São Paulo is Bruno Covas, and his party is "Partido da Social Democracia Brasileira", PSDB.

São Paulo is crossed by the Tropic of Capricorn. It is in a plateau (a high flat area), 760 metres above the sea level.

Because of its altitude, its climate (subtropical) is not so warm as it is near the coast. São Paulo is 70 km far from the coast, 420 km far from Rio de Janeiro, and 1,020 km far from Brasília, the Brazilian capital city.

The metropolitan area formed by São Paulo and 39 surroundings cities is the biggest in the Latin America. More than 19 million people live in this metropolitan area, which is also called "Greater São Paulo" and is the fifth biggest of the world.

The city is divided into 31 boroughs, and each borough is divided into neighbourhoods. The boroughs form nine regions (or "zones"), with similar geographic location and history, but most people and companies prefer to use another division, with only five regions.

Descendants of many peoples live in São Paulo: Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, African, German, Lebanese, Japanese. There are also descendant of peoples from other South American countries, for example Argentina and Bolivia, and other places, for example Chinese people, Jews, and South Koreans.

Every day, people from other cities or states move to São Paulo. Many are people from the Northeast region of Brazil that try to find a job in the city.

São Paulo is the commercial and industrial center of Brazil. There are factories and shops of all sizes and kinds. For example, in São Paulo there are some of the more expensive shops of Brazil, but also there are commercial districts formed only by cheap shops, and people from many places (also from other cities) buy clothing, electronics and other products at these districts.

Football is the sport with the biggest number of fans in the city. The most important clubs from the city are Corinthians, Palmeiras, and São Paulo. They are all playing in the Brazilian Série A, the major football championship in Brazil. Except Palmeiras.

There are also other big and medium teams from São Paulo, for example Portuguesa and Juventus, and many small teams. However, Santos FC, that is a club from Santos, a city in the coast, is the fourth team in number of supporters.

São Paulo also hosts the Formula One Brazilian Grand Prix, in Autódromo José Carlos Pace (known as Autódromo de Interlagos).

Other major sports are basketball and volleyball. Some people also play handball, tennis, and other sports.

Some people do not like São Paulo because of the big number of cars, trucks and motorcycles on streets and avenues. The public transport is also very important for the people who live there. There are many bus lanes in the city, and a big Metro (underground railway) and railway system.

São Paulo has three airports and is the second city in number of helicopters of the world (New York City is the first).

Below is a list of famous people born in São Paulo.


Tim Burton

Timothy Walter Burton (born August 25, 1958) is an American artist, director, producer and screenwriter.

Burton was born in Burbank, California on August 25, 1958. He began as an animator for Walt Disney Pictures, but soon moved on making his own kinds of movies and projects.

He has an individual style; the movies that he makes are creative and often based on events that would not happen in real life. For example, the main character in "Edward Scissorhands" is a young man who has scissors instead of hands. His movies attract an audience usually that fits his unique tastes. For his movie "Sweeny Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street" he was nominated "Best Director" by the Golden Globes in 2008.

Burton has bipolar disorder. He lives in Belsize Park, London, next door to his former partner Helena Bonham Carter. Burton and Carter split in December 2014. The houses have a door connecting them. The couple have a son and daughter together.


DVD

A DVD (which means Digital Versatile Disc or a Digital Video Disc) is an optical disc capable of storing up to 4.7 GB of data, more than six times what a CD can hold. DVDs are often used to store movies at better quality than a VHS. DVDs can also have interactive menus and bonus features such as alternative or deleted scenes and commentaries. Like CDs, DVDs are read with a laser.

The DVD can have one or two sides, and one or two layers of data per side; the number of sides and layers determines how much it can hold. A 12 cm diameter disc may have one of the following storage capacities:


There are also 8 cm DVDs with a storage capacity of 1.5 GB.

The capacity of a DVD-ROM can be determined by noting the number of data sides, and looking at the data side(s) of the disc. Double-layered sides are usually gold-colored, while single-layered sides are usually silver-colored, like a CD. One additional way to tell if a DVD contains one or two layers is to look at the center ring on the underside of the disc. If there are two barcodes, it is a dual layer disc. If there is one barcode, there is only one layer.

The "Oxford English Dictionary" comments that, "In 1995, rival manufacturers of the product initially named digital video disc agreed that, in order to emphasize the flexibility of the format for multimedia applications, the preferred abbreviation DVD would be understood to denote digital versatile disc." The OED also states that in 1995, "The companies said the official name of the format will simply be DVD. Toshiba had been using the name 'digital video disc', but that was switched to 'digital versatile disc' after computer companies complained that it left out their applications."

"Digital versatile disc" is the explanation provided in a DVD Forum Primer from 2000 and in the DVD Forum's mission statement, which the purpose is to promote broad acceptance of DVD products on technology, across entertainment, and other industries.

Because DVDs became highly popular for the distribution of movies in the 2000s, the term "DVD" became popularly used in English as a noun to describe specifically a full-length movie released on the format; for example the sentence to "watch a DVD" describes watching a movie on DVD.

Both CD and DVD discs have equal sizes (diameter, thickness etc.). However, the amount of information they can store is different. These discs are made of the same materials and have the same methods of production.

CDs and DVDs use the same way of keeping information. Both CDs and DVDs have pits and bumps on the data track (the data track represents a path which has certain information). The information is read by a laser.

A DVD disk has several layers, which are made of plastic. All layers have a thickness of 1.2 millimeters. An injection used on a polycarbonate plastic leads to the creation of microscopic bumps. Today's production uses this type of plastic to create different things because it can resist very high and low temperatures.

When layers are made, the bumps appear. Many bumps form one continuous spiral that can include information. After that a spray of a special reflective layer covers the bumps.

Aluminum is applied behind inner layers and semi-reflective gold covers the outer layers. This helps the laser to concentrate through the outer layers onto the inner ones. Then, after applying a protective liquid (lacquer) and pressing the layers, they are treated with infrared light.

Every track on a DVD disk circles from its center to the edge. The distance between the tracks on a DVD disk is 740 nanometers. Only a very precise mechanism can read the bumps on the disk, because they are very small (320×400×120 nanometers).
The aluminum side of the disk has pits, but the side which is read by the laser has bumps. Because the size of the bumps are very small, a DVD track is very long. A data track of a DVD layer is about 7.5 miles long. This is the length of an ordinary DVD disk. The track of a disc with two sides would be about 30 miles long.

Submarine

A submarine (or sub) is a vessel that goes underwater. Most large submarines are war vessels. Some small ones are used for scientific or business purposes. These are often called "submersibles" and cannot go far or stay long away from base. Some people buy their own to explore under the sea. A submarine is a boat, not a ship.

Early submarines were often powered by hand. This is because boat engines had not been invented yet. They were almost always made for war. Submarines would try to sink enemy ships by crude methods. These included drilling screws into their wooden hulls. Some tried to blow up a ship. This often destroyed the submarine, too. At the end of the 19th century, the Whitehead torpedo and electrical systems allowed much better submarines.

These better submarines were much used during the First and Second World Wars. Many of these better submarines were created by Germany, called U-boats. The submarines were powered by a diesel-electric system. A diesel motor would be used to turn a generator. The generator would charge a large battery while the submarine was on the surface. The power in the battery was then used by the submarine when it went underwater. These submarines were dangerous to enemies. They were difficult to see while underwater but it was easy to attack them when they surfaced to recharge. Many modern boats still use this diesel-electric propulsion system.

The First Battle of the Atlantic was the first major battle that was mainly fought between submarines and their enemies. As in later wars, the main jobs of submarines were to enforce a blockade and to sink enemy warships. They usually attacked freighters at night, shooting with their deck guns and then hiding under the water. Sometimes they used their torpedoes, which they could fire while underwater, especially against larger ships and warships. During World War II The US Navy lost around 52 submarines due to combat and non-combat causes. 

After World War II better sonar helped the enemies of submarines to find and destroy them. New subs were more streamlined and had no deck guns because water dragging against the guns made noise underwater and slowed the subs.

Most large modern military submarines are powered by nuclear reactors. These submarines often have a system which can get air from the seawater. These two things allow them to stay underwater for long periods of time. Their most important uses are attacking ships or launching missiles. These include cruise missiles and nuclear missiles. There are two main kinds of subs. Attack submarines are small and fast. They attack other subs and surface ships with torpedos. Missile subs are larger and slower. They are built to shoot missiles at far-away targets on land.


Lebanon

Lebanon is a country in the Middle East, in Western Asia, next to the Mediterranean Sea. It has borders with Israel to the south and Syria to the east and north.

Lebanon was named "Phoenicia" under the Roman Empire. Some of the biggest temples in Antiquity were there at Heliopolis. In the eighth century Arabs conquered Phoenicia and imposed their religion Islam. But many areas in the mountains remained Christian as the "Maronites". However, the Christians who remained in the mountains became Arabized and started identifying themselves as "Arab Christians".

Lebanon has been independent since 1943. Its capital city is Beirut.

Lebanon has two chains of mountains. It has a long coastline. The area of Lebanon is 10,452 square kilometers.

The Cedar tree is the national symbol of Lebanon because many of them grow in the Lebanon Mountains.

Around 5.2 million people live in Lebanon. 

Around 14 million Lebanese people live outside Lebanon. 

About 68% of Lebanese people are Muslim and 32% are Christian.

The official language of Lebanon is Arabic and it is the most common language. French, English, and Armenian are also common languages.

Lebanon is divided into six governorates. These are divided into 25 districts. The districts are also divided into several municipalities. The governorates and their districts are listed below:



