Eastern Orthodox Church


The Eastern Orthodox Church, officially the Orthodox Church, is a Christian church. Their type of Christianity is also called Orthodox Christianity or Orthodoxy. Their members are called Orthodox Christians, although there is another group of Churches called Oriental Orthodox that is not in communion with the Orthodox Church. There are about 300 million Orthodox Christians in the world. Most Orthodox Christians are found in Eastern Europe and the Middle East.

The Eastern Orthodox Church teaches that it is the Church started by Jesus Christ in his instructions to the Apostles. It practices what it understands to be the original Christian faith and maintains the sacred tradition passed down from the apostles.

The worship service is known as the Divine Liturgy. The beliefs and rituals of the service are similar to the Eucharist in the Roman Catholic Church.

In 395, the Roman Empire was split into a western part and an eastern part. The western part lasted to the 5th or 6th century. Τhe exact dates are a point of debate. The eastern part, which is commonly called Byzantine Empire, lasted until the 15th century. The split of the Roman Empire also affected the church, which developed differently in both parts. In 1054, there was the Great Schism. The western part developed what is now the Roman Catholic Church, and the eastern part is now called Eastern Orthodox Church. In the west, there is the Patriarch of Rome, who is commonly called the Pope. In the east, there is the Patriarch of Constantinople. Because of historical developments, many Eastern Orthodox churches also have a local Patriarch. In the west, the Pope is an absolute leader. The Patriarch of Constantinople is the "first among equals"; his power is not absolute, as seen when meeting with other Patriarchs. His power is the same of all bishops.
Some holidays include Christmas and Easter.

Orthodox believe in everything in the Nicene Creed:

The many churches of the Orthodox Church are distinct in terms of administration and local culture, but for the most part exist in full communion with one another. Most of these churches are led by patriarchs. Most patriarchs recognize the Patriarch of Constantinople as their spiritual leader.

The following listing contains a selection of Eastern Orthodox Churches. Unless otherwise stated, they are in communion:

In the 17th century a group of people split from the Eastern Orthodox Church because they did not agree with some changes that were introduced. These people are known as Old Believers today. There are two big groups of Old Believers and a few smaller ones. Old Believers are not in communion with the other Eastern Orthodox Churches.


"The Orthodox Church; 455 Questions and Answers". Harakas, Stanley H. Light and Life Publishing Company, 1988. ()

The Orthodox Church New Edition Publisher: Penguin (Non-Classics); 2 edition


Lisgar Collegiate Institute

Lisgar Collegiate Institute is in Ottawa, Canada. It is the oldest secondary school in Ottawa and possibly Ontario. It was named after a former Governor General of Canada. It was established in 1874 and has been formerly known as the Ottawa Collegiate Institute and the Dalhousie District Grammar School. It celebrated its 160th anniversary in 2004. 
Lisgar houses about 1000 students. It has a gifted program.

Aberdeen

Aberdeen is a city on the north east coast of Scotland where the rivers Dee and Don flow into the North Sea. It was the capital of the Grampian region of Scotland, but it is now one of Scotland's Unitary Authorities. Aberdeen is the third largest city in Scotland. Its population is nearly 200,000. It is the coldest city in the UK. The city's motto is "Bon Accord".

In the 8th AD, Aberdeen was founded as a settlement for fishing. It grew into a town in the early 12th century. By 1264, Aberdeen already had a castle.

Aberdeen is famous for its buildings made from granite. Because of grey colour of the stone, Aberdeen is called the "Silver City by the Golden Sands". Aberdeen has two universities, the University of Aberdeen which was founded on 10 February 1495 by Bishop William Elphinstone and Robert Gordon University which was founded in 1910 but has a history dating back to the 1800s.
The local people sometimes speak in a dialect called Doric. They are called Aberdonians.
Aberdeen has its own football team, Aberdeen F.C.. The team plays in the Scottish Premier League. 
Each year in August, Aberdeen hosts the Aberdeen International Youth Festival. This is one of the most important annual events in Scotland. Hundred of groups of young performing artists come to Aberdeen each year for the festival. 
Aberdeen shares its name with Aberdeen, Idaho and Aberdeen, Washington in this Gallery.

Psoriasis

Psoriasis is a skin condition where cells grow at a faster rate than they can be shed, causing excess skin to build up and form scaly patches on the body. 

The condition: 
It appears to be a buildup of dry skin on your body. You can have it at any age, but normally as you get older. It starts with the skin cracking as a paper cut on your fingertips. This skin would begin to die, flake, peal and itch. As your itch the area, it begins to get red and then it begins to blister, flake and peels to raw skin. It appears most often on hands, toes, the inside arch of your feet and on your heels. It is also shows up in callus, by cracking. When washing hands it has a burning effect. 

Living in moist humid climate appears to delay the condition for appearing. Dry arid climates seem to aggravate the condition. Washing your hands has a drying affect, which triggers the condition. When washing, water removes oils from our body, and has a drying effect on our hands. Washing with Psoriasis removes the dry skin, but then the skin underneath is raw. Hard water appears to worsen the condition in dry climates, but not as much in humid areas. Soft water appears better. 

Jurassic Park

Jurassic Park is a 1990 science fiction novel by Michael Crichton. It was made into a movie in 1993 directed by Steven Spielberg.

As a story, Jurassic Park is a "going back in time" story, without actually going back in time. It's impossible, but like H.G. Wells's 
many books, or Conan Doyle's "The Lost World", it is futurist but imaginary.

The plot of this story is of a theme park that is filled with dinosaurs. The park seems like a great idea to the people building the park. John Hammond, the man who built the park, invites several people, including his grandchildren and the paleontologist Dr. Alan Grant, to visit the park. During the tour, Nedry (a computer worker for the park) shuts down the entire park to try to steal some dinosaur embryos, in order to earn a fortune from another company. Now the guests must try to restart power for the park. Complications arise since some dinosaurs escape because of the power failure, and other try to eat the humans.




