Public domain


Public domain is a phrase that describes something that belongs to all people in general: the public. The public domain contains works (such as books, films, or paintings) that are not under copyright protection.

The "opposite" of "public domain" is copyrighted material, which is owned either by the creator of the work or their estate. The term "public domain" is only used to describe things that can be copyrighted, such as photographs, drawings, written articles, books or plays, or similar works of art. As a general rule, all intellectual property works, after enough time has gone by, will become part of public domain. Examples include the works of Leonardo da Vinci, William Shakespeare and Ludwig van Beethoven, and the books of Isaac Newton.

A work can enter the public domain in many ways.

In some cases, if a work enters the public domain after copyright expiration, anyone using the work may still be required to note who created the work. Even if some works are in the public domain due to not being copyrighted, there may be still non-copyright usage restrictions. For examples, even though the design of national currencies may be ineligible, or be unsuitable, for copyright, counterfeiting them for fraud is widely a very serious crime. Another example are logos and images that only have text or simple shapes. These logos aren't copyrighted in the United States, but they are often protected by trademarks.


Child

A child (the plural is children) is a person below the age of puberty (biologically) or, at least in English-speaking countries, below the age of majority or in other contexts below the age of consent, of marriage and to drink/buy alcohol (legally). A person can be called his or her parent's child, no matter how old he or she is. Another word for "child" is "kid".

In most countries, children go to school. Small children may go to nursery school, preschool or kindergarten. Playing with small toys and using their imaginations are important for child development. But often in a developing country, children sometimes work in factories or in the fields with their parents or guardians.

When two people get married and one (or both) of them have children with someone else before this marriage, that child is called a "step child" by the child's non-birth parent. If both people had children, the children of each parent are "step brothers" or "step sisters" of each other. A child whose parents have died is an orphan. Orphans with no parent may be raised by grandparents or other relatives. Otherwise they may go to live in an orphanage. They may be adopted by another adult or couple wanting a child. They will then be able to grow up in a new family.


Nickelodeon

Nickelodeon (often shortened to Nick) is a worldwide cable television network. Airing Mondays-Fridays from 6 a.m.-5 p.m. Saturdays from 6 a.m.-9 p.m. and Sundays from 6 a.m.-7 p.m. It is made for children. The network was started in 1983 as Pinwheel. During the late mornings and afternoons, Nickelodeon shows Nick Jr. This is a group of learning programs and series for younger children. They are shown while the older children are in school. At night, the network shows Nick at Nite. Nick at Nite is a group of reruns of older series that parents watched when they were younger.

Programming seen on Nickelodeon includes animated series (such as "SpongeBob SquarePants", "The Loud House", "Goat Simulator and Friends", "The Casagrandes", "The Patrick Star Show", "", "The Smurfs", Rugrats, "The Mercy and DJ show" and "Big Nate"), live-action, scripted series (such as "Danger Force", "Tyler Perry's Young Dylan" and "All That"), and original made-for-TV movies, while the network's daytime schedule is dedicated to shows targeting preschoolers (such as "Bubble Guppies", "PAW Patrol", and "Blue's Clues & You!").

Nicktoons is the branding for Nickelodeon's original animated television series. Until 1991, the animated series that aired on Nickelodeon were largely imported from foreign countries, with some original animated specials that were also featured on the channel up to that point. 
Though the Nicktoons branding has seldom been used by the network itself since the 2002 launch of the channel of the same name, original animated series continue to make up a substantial portion of Nickelodeon's lineup. Roughly 6 to 7 hours of these programs are seen on the weekday schedule, and around nine hours on weekends, including a dedicated weekend morning animation block.

Nick at Nite is a programming block for adults and older youth audiences. The block was founded in 1985. This block is similar to Adult Swim, the nighttime programming block for Cartoon Network.

Nick Jr. is a children's programming block for children aged 2-6. It was founded in 1988 as a programming block. A channel called Nick Jr. was launched in 2009.

Nicktoons is a programming block founded in 1991, the same day Doug, Rugrats and The Ren and Stimpy Show started. The programming block was repeated every Saturday and Sunday. A channel called Nicktoons was launched in 2002. The channel is for ages 7-14.

TeenNick is a programming block for teens ages 13-19. It was founded in 2001. This block is for teenage audiences. The channel launched in 2009. It had shows such as Drake & Josh and iCarly

NickMusic is a channel that launched in 2002 as MTV Hits. It was changed later on.

NickRewind was a block on TeenNick from 2019-2022 and Nick at Nite from 2023-present on weekdays, that launched in 2011. It showed re-runs of old Nickelodeon shows.



