Carrot


The carrot (pronounced CARE-ot) is a type of plant. Many different types exist. The Latin name of the plant is usually given as "Daucus carota". The plant has an edible, orange root, and usually white flowers. Wild carrots grow naturally in Eurasia. Domesticated carrots are grown for food in many parts of the world.

Carrots are grown in the ground, and carrots roots are a common edible vegetable. After cleaning, the roots may be eaten raw or cooked. They are served as part of many dishes. In Portugal, carrot jam is a speciality.

Carrots are a moderate source of beta carotene, biotin, vitamin K1, vitamin B6, and potassium. Along with beta-carotene, carrots also have carotenoids another antioxidant helpful to enhance immunity functions and decreased risk of cardiovascular diseases, degenerative diseases and different types of cancers

Conservatism

Conservatism is a type of political belief that supports emphasis on traditions and relies on the individual to maintain society. The term was first used by in 1818, during the Bourbon Restoration, which wanted to roll back the policies of the French Revolution. The term is associated with right-wing politics. It has been used to describe a wide range of views. There is no single set of policies that are regarded as conservative because the meaning of conservatism depends on a given place and time, although most Conservatives oppose Modernism in some way and want to go back to old values.
In Western culture for example, Conservatives try to maintain things like organized religion, property rights, parliamentary government and family values.

Conservatism tends to support the notion of faith, particularly in Abrahamic traditions in countries where those are the dominant religions. In England, the publication of Edmund Burke’s book "Reflections on the revolution in France" suggested people should be satisfied and advocated a caring government.

Some conservatives seek to keep things as they are, while others want a return to the way things were at an earlier time. This is often called reactionary conservatism. A conservative party in England formed which wanted better co-operation between rich and poor, democracy, and some aspects of a welfare state. This was also favored by conservatives in France and other parts of Europe.


In Brazil, conservatism comes from its Portuguese roots, often being Evangelical, such as President Jair Bolsonaro.

Conservatives in India are pro-Hindu, anti-Pakistan, and are socially conservative. The Bharatiya Janata Party is the biggest conservative party in India, lead by Narendra Modi.

In the United States, conservatives worry about centralism, do not trust the welfare state, and consider business people trustworthy on wages and prices. During the 20th century the Republican Party became a Conservative political party in the United States.



