Hot Press


Hot Press is a music and political magazine. It was founded in 1977. The magazine is based in Dublin, Republic of Ireland. It is different from other similar magazines by its anti-establishment opinion and the amount of focus on Irish music, most notably early U2. It is currently edited by Niall Stokes.


Alabama Song

The "Alabama Song" comes from the 1930 operetta "Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny". The music is by Kurt Weill; officially the lyrics are by Bertolt Brecht, but were probably actually written by Elisabeth Hauptmann. The lyrics for the "Alabama Song" are in English (although a specific type of English) and are performed in that language even when the opera is performed in its original German.

The song has often been covered, perhaps most famously in 1967 by The Doors; unsurprisingly, Jim Morrison changed the lyric "Show us the way to the next pretty boy" to "Show me the way to the next little girl."

The Doors

The Doors were an American rock band. They were one of the most popular rock groups of all time. Led by singer Jim Morrison, along with Ray Manzarek (keyboards), Robby Krieger (guitar) and John Densmore (drums), the group is thought of today as a major influence on rock music, and they are still just as popular as they ever were, if not more popular.

The group was widely known for its lead singer, Jim Morrison, who was famous for his love of alcohol and illegal drugs. Morrison often sang at concerts after using alcohol and drugs, sometimes so drunk that he could not remember the words to his own songs. Once, Morrison was said to have shown his private parts to the audience, and he was charged with a crime. 

Morrison died in Paris, France, on July 3, 1971. His death is thought to have been caused by a heart attack brought on by a drug overdose.

There is a 1991 movie about them, also called "The Doors". It was directed by Oliver Stone and starred Val Kilmer as Jim Morrison.


Mickey Gilley

Mickey Leroy Gilley (March 9, 1936 – May 7, 2022) was an American country musician and singer-songwriter. He was a cousin of Jerry Lee Lewis and Jimmy Swaggart. He was best known for his nightclub "Gilley's" which was featured in the movie "Urban Cowboy" and his hit song "Don't The Girls All Get Prettier At Closing Time". He was born in Natchez, Mississippi. His career began in 1957.

Gilley died on May 7, 2022 in Branson, Missouri at the age of 86.


Jerry Lee Lewis

Jerry Lee Lewis (September 29, 1935 – October 28, 2022) was an American singer-songwriter and musician. His best known singles were "Great Balls of Fire", "Breathless", and "High School Confidential". He was honored in the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum in 2022.

Like other music players who were known by many people around the same time as him Johnny Cash, Elvis Presley, Roy Orbison, and Carl Perkins, Lewis sang gospel and country music before becoming well known for rock and roll. He was known for his wild style of piano playing and songs like "Whole Lotta Shakin' Going On" and "Great Balls of Fire".

Lewis got a career boost, when he performed on "The Steve Allen Show". His first son was named Steve Allen Lewis, as a tribute.

At a time when Lewis was very popular, people found out that his third wife, Myra Gale Brown, was a thirteen-year-old distant cousin of his. People thought this was bad. His career nearly came to an end. In the early 1960s, he made a comeback. Throughout the next two decades he suffered many personal problems, including health problems, and divorce. 

On November 22, 1976, Lewis was arrested outside Elvis Presley's Graceland home for trying to shoot him.

Many people think of him as an icon and pioneer of popular music.

A 1989 movie, "Great Balls of Fire", starring Dennis Quaid and Winona Ryder, is about his life.

Lewis was born in Ferriday, Louisiana. He was a cousin of Mickey Gilley and Jimmy Swaggart. 

Lewis was married seven times, There were some bigamous marriages and a marriage with his underage cousin. He had six children during his marriages.

When Jerry Lee Lewis was 16, he married Dorothy Barton, the daughter of a preacher. Their union lasted for 20 months, from February 1952 to October 1953.

He preferred young girls, and several of his marriages were of doubtful legality. His third marriage was to 13-year-old Myra Gale Brown, his first cousin once removed, on December 12, 1957. It is worth remembering that every state had its own legal system, and what was lawful in Tennessee might not have been lawful in some other states.

Lewis died on October 28, 2022 at his home in Nesbit, Mississippi at the age of 87. At the time of his death, he was recovering from the flu.

Jimmy Swaggart

Jimmy Lee Swaggart (born March 15, 1935) is an American Pentecostal televangelist (a preacher who gives services on TV). His church, Family Worship Center, is in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Swaggart first started his television ministry in 1975, and it continues today, over 33 years later. The show airs nationally across the U.S. and overseas. The weekly "Jimmy Swaggart Telecast" and "A Study in the Word" are shown nationwide and overseas on 78 channels in 104 countries and live over the Internet. He preaches a message called "The Cross" which is that you can only get to heaven through Jesus.

Swaggart was born in Ferriday, Louisiana, USA. He is a cousin of musicians Jerry Lee Lewis and Mickey Gilley. Swaggart is married to Frances Swaggart, who hosts the popular SonLife Radio program, "Frances and Friends". They have one son, Donnie, who is also a minister. They have three grandchildren, Jennifer, Gabriel and Matthew Swaggart. Gabriel also serves the ministry as pastor of Crossfire Youth Ministries.

He has also been a very controversial figure, too. He was caught with a prostitute in 1987, but later asked God (and the public) for forgiveness. He was caught again in 1991.

Johnny Cash

John R. "Johnny" Cash (born J. R. Cash; February 26, 1932 – September 12, 2003) was a Grammy Award-winning American musician, actor and author. He is considered one of the most important musicians of the 20th century. He is well known for his country music, his music spanned many other genres, including gospel, folk and rock and roll. Because of this, he was inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, and the Gospel Music Hall of Fame. He died from diabetes on September 12, 2003 when he was 71 years old.

Cash was born John R. Cash in Kingsland, Arkansas in the United States on February 26, 1932. His parents called him "J.R. Cash" because they could not think of a name. He only started using the name "Johnny Cash" when he started making music. He started working in fields when he was five years old, singing with his family. He had an older brother, Jack, who died when Johnny was 12. Cash started smoking at 12 years old.

Cash's first memories had a lot of gospel music in. He was taught by his mother and her friend to play the guitar and sing. When he was 18, he joined the United States Air Force where he made his first band, called 'The Landsberg Barbarians'. He left the military in 1954.

Cash was arrested multiple times. Once he broke his toe when he tried to escape by kicking the bars of his jail cell.

Cash was often called "The Man in Black" because of the clothes he wore, and was best known for his deep voice and powerful music. Early in his career he was very popular because of his 'outlaw' image and rebellious actions, although later in his life he became very humble. 

He was well known for the free concerts he held for prisoners and by starting most of his concerts with the words "Hello, I'm Johnny Cash". Lots of his music focused on making good or bad choices in life and what happens after choices are made. It also focused on sadness and being saved or forgiven by God. Some of his best known songs are "I Walk the Line", "Folsom Prison Blues", "Ring of Fire", "God's Gonna Cut You Down", "A Boy Named Sue", "Hurt", "Mister Garfield", and "Man in Black". Cash often recorded songs that other singers first made popular.

Cash met his first wife, Vivian while training in the Air Force. They wrote hundreds of letters to each other while he was in Germany with the Air Force, and married on August 7, 1954. They had four daughters called Rosanne, Kathy, Cindy and Tara. They got a divorce in 1966 because Cash drank too much alcohol, took drugs and had lots of affairs.

Cash asked June Carter Cash to marry him in 1968, while on stage. They got married on March 1st, 1968. She co-wrote one of Johnny's most famous songs, Ring of Fire. They stayed together until she died in 2003.

Cash died on September 12, 2003 in Nashville, Tennessee from complications of diabetes. He was 71 years old. Cash was buried next to his wife, June Carter Cash, who had died 4 months earlier.

Cash sold over 90 million records in his nearly fifty-year career, making in one of the best-selling music artists of all time.


Pluto (mythology)

Pluto is the god of the underworld in Roman mythology. Pluto was also the god of wealth because diamonds and other jewels come from underground.

A myth about Pluto is that he took Proserpina, who was the daughter of Ceres, to the underworld to be his wife. Ceres cried and did not let plants grow on the Earth. People needed the plants so much that the god Jupiter made Pluto give her up. The deal they worked out was that for six months, Pluto got Proserpina. While Proserpina was in the underworld, no plants could grow on Earth and it was winter. When Proserpina went back to her mother, it was summer. This was how the Romans explained the seasons. Pluto also had a three-headed dog named Cerberus that guarded the gates to the underworld.

The dwarf planet Pluto was named after this god. 


Maoism

Maoism is the communist (a plan about how countries should work) idea created by the Chinese man Mao Zedong. Mao believed that peasants, not factory workers, should lead the communist revolution (change in government). China followed Maoism when he became leader, in 1949. This created differences with communism in the USSR and Cuba. Maoism is still practiced in China today, but it has become different since Mao died in 1976. Today the Chinese economy is still considered a communistic economy. The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) completely controls all aspects of production and sets workers wages artificially low for the "good of all", which is the basic premise of Maoism. All worker production is also relegated to the overall good and equality of all, the definition of which is also determined by the state (CCP). This effectively shackles the profit motive (upward wage mobility) for the working class, as upward mobility is all but nonexistent except for those in line with, or actively participating in, the Chinese Communist Party.
Maoism was a theory created because of Mao’s beliefs and ideologies. Similar to Karl Marx, he agrees that a proletariat revolution is essential in order for society to change. As opposed to Marx who states that the factory workers should revolutionize, Mao felt that the farmers in China were the ones in need of this revolution. Marx supports an economically strong state that is industrialized. Mao on the other hand, does not support industrialization or technology. 

The reasoning behind this is that he felt that industrialization would give owners the ability to exploit their workers even more which will result in a weakened proletariat class. While Karl Marx viewed industrialization to play vital role in the proletariat since factory workers were most likely the ones suffering under capitalism. Marxism states that “social change is driven by the economy” meaning that society and the economy are intertwined; while Maoism states that willpower is what changes us. 

Then in 1960 as the USSR denounced Stalin’s ideas who Mao was an avid admirer of, Mao’s own popularity started to decrease. With the leader Liu Shaoqi, Mao’s policies were no longer in effect. Then in 1964, the “Cultural Revolution” happened due to the distribution of Mao’s “Little Red Book” which reemphasized his ideologies. This resulted in the deaths of many civilians due to conflicts and fighting between Mao’s party and the Red Guard.



