UK Independence Party


The United Kingdom Independence Party (often called UKIP, said "you-kipp") is a political party in the United Kingdom. Its policies promote conservatism, national conservatism, and Euroscepticism.

The party was founded in 1993, and they first won seats in the European Parliament in 1999. They won 3 seats in 1999, which was increased to 12 in 2004 and 13 in 2009. It is now 9. The party does not do well under Britain's 'First-past-the-post' system of elections and only had one seat in the British House of Commons, although they received 3.8 million votes (12.6% of the total vote) at the 2015 UK general election.

Supporters of UKIP mostly believe in the following things:

In 2008 UKIP banned people who used to be members of the British National Party (BNP) from joining.

On 9 October 2014 Douglas Carswell became UKIP's first elected MP. Carswell quit the party in March 2017.

In the May 2014 local elections UKIP got 30% of the vote in Sunderland. The party gained 155 local council seats across the country.

UKIP came third in the May 2015 general election, after the Labour Party and the Conservative Party. The party got 12.9% of the vote and gained one seat.

In the 2017 general election, UKIP's share of the vote went down to 1.8 and they didn't win any seats. The next day UKIP's leader Paul Nuttall resigned.

There are currently over 20,000 people who are members of the UKIP.

In February 2018 Gerard Batten become leader of the party firstly on an interim basis before winning the UKIP leadership election in April 2018 unopposed.

In the 2018 UK local elections UKIP lost 124 of the 126 seats it was defending, and gained a single seat in Derby.

Since the election of Batten as leader of the party there have been accusations that UKIP is embracing the far-right. Those saying the party was moving to the right began early in Battern's leadership when he began to focus the party around rejecting Islamic ideology and when a quote arose of Battern calling Islam a "death cult". In September 2018 Battern was also criticised for attending an anti-Muslim rally in Sunderland. These accusations grew much stronger after the far-right activist Tommy Robinson was appointed an advisor to Battern in November 2018. This led to many of UKIP's MEPs and former party leaders Nigel Farage and Paul Nuttall to leave the party, as well as the party's leader in Scotland.


Space Oddity

David Bowie's first big hit record was the single "Space Oddity" in 1969. This album though only really sold well when he became more famous in 1973. Many of the songs are very melodic, with good tunes, and are unusual.

The songs on this album are:

Saxophone

A saxophone is a type of musical instrument in the woodwind family. The saxophone uses a piece of wood, called a reed, to make sound. The player blows air into the mouthpiece, which vibrates the reed. The saxophone also uses keys to change pitch, and the player closes or opens holes to choose the note. Commonly, saxophones have about 22 keys. 

The saxophone is most commonly found in four voices: soprano, alto, tenor, and baritone saxophones. However, uncommon saxophones include the bass and contrabass saxophones (lower than a baritone saxophone), the C-melody saxophone (between the tenor and alto saxophones), and the sopranino saxophone (higher than a soprano saxophone). 

It was invented in 1840 by Adolphe Sax and is used in classical, jazz, and occasionally in rock, pop, and other styles. The saxophone was originally created for military bands, but was commonly used in jazz big bands in the 1940s and 1950s. Famous saxophone players include Marcel Mule (classical music), John Coltrane (jazz music), and Charlie Parker (jazz music).

Bryophyte

Bryophytes are simple plants. They are the simplest plants that grow on land. There are three forms of bryophyte. These are mosses, liverworts and hornworts. 

Bryophyta is the formal term for this division of plants who do not have tissues to move water. In some modern classifications the word bryophyta only includes mosses. However, the term is still useful because mosses, liverworts, and hornworts share important traits. 

Scientists think that liverworts evolved from green algae. Then other plants, including moss and hornworts, evolved from liverworts.

A person who studies bryophytes is called a bryologist. The study of bryophytes is named bryology.

Like all land plants (embryophytes), bryophytes have life cycles with alternation of generations. A bryophyte has two forms that have different numbers of chromosomes. The haploid form has unpaired chromosomes. It is called a gametophyte. People often write "1n" for haploid. The other form is diploid and has paired chromosomes. It is called a sporophyte. People often write "2n" for diploid. 

A bryophyte begins when its parent plant makes haploid spores that land on the ground. Each spore grows into a leafy gametophyte. This gametophyte is either male or female. Male gametophytes make haploid sperm. Female gametophytes make haploid eggs. Water moves the sperm to the egg. An embryo is made when they join. This embryo is diploid. It grows a tall stalk from the gametophyte. This stalk is often brown. A structure called the sporangium is at the top of the stalk. The sporangium is diploid too. It makes spores that are haploid in a process called meiosis. When the spores land on the ground, the cycle begins again. 

Bryophytes are "gametophyte dominant." This phrase means when you look at a bryophyte, you are more likely to see the gametophyte. The sporophyte is less common. Sporophytes are always attached to the gametophyte. They must get food from the gametophyte. Bryophyte sporophytes do not have branches. They make only one sporangium.


Kent

Kent is a county in England. It is just to the south-east of London and is on the coast. 

The sea to the East of Kent is the North Sea. The sea south of Kent is called the English Channel. France is opposite Kent on the other side of The Channel. At the most narrow point, between Dover, Calais and Cape Gris-Nez, The Channel is only 21 miles (34 km) wide. Dover is one of the main ports in Kent. From here many ferries sail to and from France.

Other main ports in Kent include Sheerness and Ramsgate. The Channel Tunnel goes from Folkestone in Kent to Calais in France. It was built in the late 1980s and early 1990s. It is only for trains, but some of the trains carry cars and freight.

Kent is a very ancient county. In the 6th and 7th centuries it was ruled by its own kings. It is often called 'the garden of England' because its countryside is very green and because it produces much fruit. A lot of fruit such as strawberries are grown in Kent, and the county is famous for growing hops which are used to make beer. Maidstone is the county town because the local government for Kent is based there.

Another important town is the city of Canterbury. The Archbishop of Canterbury is the head of the Church of England. Hundreds of years ago many Christian people would travel to the Cathedral at Canterbury from their homes in other parts of Britain. This was called making a pilgrimage. 

Gavrilo Princip

Gavrilo Princip, 25 July 1894 – 28 April 1918, was the Serb nationalist who shot Archduke Franz Ferdinand and the wife of the Archduke, Archduchess Sophie Chotek.

Princip was born in Obljaj a poor area of Bosnia. As a young man he joined a small group who wanted the Slavs in the south of Austria-Hungary to join with Serbia in a new country. They called themselves "Young Bosnia". A group of powerful people in Serbia decided to help them. Those powerful people were called the Black Hand. They gave 'Young Bosnia' guns and small bombs. 

When they heard that Franz Ferdinand was coming to Sarajevo, six of them took the bombs and guns and waited for Ferdinand to drive past. They were going to kill Ferdinand when he drove past. Every one of them failed. After they all failed, Princip went to a cafe to buy a sandwich.

When Princip came out of the cafe, he saw Ferdinand in his car. The driver of the car had driven his car the wrong way and he stalled the car while trying to turn. Princip walked up and shot Ferdinand. He wanted to shoot the general who was also sitting in the car, but Ferdinand's wife Sophie threw her arms around Ferdinand. She was in the way, and Princip shot her instead of the general.

At his trial, Princip said he did it because he loved his people. The Austrians thought it was a very bad crime, but they could not kill him because he was only 19 years old. The law in Austria-Hungary said only people older than 20 could be killed, even when the crime was as bad as killing royalty like Ferdinand. They said Princip must stay in prison for 20 years. During his time in the prison, one of his arms was amputated. He died in prison of tuberculosis and blood loss in 1918. 

Because this crime happened, Austria-Hungary gave Serbia a list of things that Serbia had to do, later called the "July Ultimatum", to stop things like this from happening any more. Serbia could not do all the things on the list fast enough, because the Austrians really wanted war with Serbia. Their German allies also wanted a big war. This led to many of the European countries to start fighting.

Formula

In mathematics and science, a formula is a rule or statement written in algebraic symbols. The plural of formula can be written in two ways: formulae or formulas - the choice is based on personal preference. 

Formulas use letters instead of words. A simple example of a formula is y = x. If x=1, the formula y=x would make the statement that x is the same thing as y, therefore, y=1. 

In mathematics, a formula can also be an identity which equates two mathematical expressions together. Some key formulas under this category include the Pythagorean theorem, binomial theorem, Euler's formula and De Moivre's formula. The expression ""V"="lwh"", which relates the volume "V" to the length "l", width "w" and height "h" of a rectangular box, is another example of a formula in geometry.

In science, one of the most well known formulas is the formula for energy, "e" = "mc", created by Albert Einstein. Here, "e" represents energy, "m" represents mass and "c" is the speed of light. Thus, energy = mass × speed of light .

The "formula" e = mc is also an equation. Every equation is a formula, but not every formula is an equation. For instance, the formula x≡y (x "is defined as" y) is not an equation, because no "=" sign is used.


Independence and Democracy

Independence and Democracy is a group in the European Parliament. It used to be called the Group of Europe of Democracies and Diversities. It has about 37 members in it. The members of this group either want their country to leave the European Union, or want to change it.


Musician

A musician is a person who plays a musical instrument like a guitar or a piano or a person that sings.

A musician is also someone who writes music, even if they write it for other people to play. People who write music are called composers.

Musicians can also make a group together to play songs.





