Map


A map is an image of an area, usually of the Earth or part of the Earth. A map is different from an aerial photograph because it includes interpretation. Many maps are called "charts" such as star charts and nautical charts. Some maps are of distant worlds. Before the late 20th century almost all maps were on paper. Today, many maps are digital, and can be seen on smartphones and computers. However, paper maps are still used.

The word "map" can also be used to talk about a chart or drawing that shows relationships between ideas, people, events, or anything else you can think about. This is why web developers call a list of web pages on a web site a site map.
People who make maps are cartographers.

Many maps today are made using GIS computer systems. These are database systems that are organized by location instead of named records. 

If a map is on a piece of paper or a computer screen, it has to be projected. This is because the Earth is round and paper and screens are flat. There are a lot of ways that use mathematics to make map projections. The only kind of map of the Earth that is not projected is one drawn on a sphere. This is called a globe.

Globe

A globe is a scale model with the shape of a sphere. Globes can be scale models of the Earth ("terrestrial globes") or of other planets. Globes can also be models of the celestial sphere ("celestial globes"). The English word "globe" comes from the , meaning round mass or sphere. 

Most globes are maps of the Earth. They have the advantage of avoiding the distortions of flat map projections. The most common types are political and physical. Political globes show countries. Physical globes show landscape like mountains and rivers. Some globes are star charts and some are maps of distant worlds.

Global as an adjective is used to mean the entire world rather than any special place on the Earth. It is also used in fields like computers to mean dealing with a whole larger system, rather than its individual little parts.

That the Earth is a sphere was established by Hellenistic astronomy in the 3rd century BC. The terrestrial globe appeared in that period. Now, there are no terrestrial globes from Classical Antiquity or the Middle Ages in existence. The first example of terrestrial globe known was the one the ancient Greek Crates of Mallus made in the middle of the 2nd century BC. The Greek geographer Strabo wrote about Crates's terrestrial globe during the early years of the Roman Empire.

A celestial globe from Classical Antiquity is in the Naples National Archaeological Museum, Italy. The globe is part of a sculpture – the globe is held up by a statue of Atlas, a Titan from Greek mythology. The ancient Romans made the globe and statue in the 2nd century AD. They may have copied the sculpture from Hellenistic art (art of the ancient Greek type) from the Hellenistic period (the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd centuries BC). The sculpture's name is the "Farnese Atlas".

Early globes of the Earth that show all of the Old World were constructed in the Islamic Golden Age. One such example was made in the 9th century AD by Muslim geographers and cartographers working under the Abbasid caliph, al-Ma'mun. Another example was the globe introduced to Beijing by the Persian astronomer, Jamal ad-Din, in 1267.

Martin Behaim designed a globe in 1492, in Nuremberg, Bavaria (Germany). Georg Glockendon was the artist who created the actual map drawings following Behaim's specifications. This globe is the oldest terrestrial globe still in existence. A copy of the globe showing America was made by Martin Waldseemueller in 1507. Another early globe, the Hunt-Lenox Globe, ca. 1507, is thought to be the source of the phrase "Here be dragons". Another "remarkably modern-looking" globe of the Earth was made in Constantinople (Istanbul) by Taqi al-Din at his Constantinople Observatory during the 1570s.

Mass-produced globes are typically covered by a printed paper map. The most common type has long, thin gores (strips) of paper. These strips narrow to a point at the North Pole and the South Pole. Then a small disk is used to paper over the irregularities at the poles. The more gores there are, the less stretching and crumpling is needed to make the paper map fit the sphere. 

From a geometric point of view, all points on a sphere are the same. One could select any point on the planet, and create a paper map that covers the globe with strips that come together at that point and the opposite point.

A globe that represents the Earth is usually mounted at a 23.5° angle on bearings. This mounting represents the axial tilt of the spinning planet, in relation to the Sun. This makes it easy to visualize how days and seasons change.

Noah

Noah (meaning rest or comfort) is a man in the Abrahamic religions. He was the son of Lamech, and the father of sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Noah and his ark are in the Book of Genesis, which also describes Noah as the 'first man to plant a vineyard' (chapter 9). Several other parts of the Bible mention him, as does the Quran.

As described in the Book of Genesis, Noah and his family kept believing in God in a time when most people did not. Knowing this was true, God told Noah he was going to flood the world, so he could drown out evil. He told Noah to build a boat called an "ark". Noah was to put himself, his family and two (a male and a female) of every kind of animal that wasn’t clean on it but seven of every kind of animal that was clean on it. People laughed at Noah, but they were killed by the flood. Noah and his family stayed on the ark until they reached land. To find land Noah sent out a dove, which returned with an olive branch. After the flood, God made a rainbow as a promise to say that he would never destroy the Earth by flood again. When they were able to walk on dry land, the animals were released and they were able to repopulate the earth.

1452

1452 was a leap year.




