Hunter S. Thompson


Hunter Stockton Thompson (July 18, 1937 – February 20, 2005) was an American writer.

He was known for a unique style of writing which he called Gonzo journalism, where the writer writes about himself trying to write about what was happening around him. 

He was born and raised in Louisville, Kentucky and spent most of his adult life on his ranch in Colorado. He committed suicide in Woody Creek, Colorado by shooting himself in the head. His main topic was the health of the American Dream.

His books include:


Johnny Depp

John Christopher "Johnny" Depp Jr. (born June 9, 1963) is an American actor, musician, philanthropist and producer.

Depp was born at Lady of Mercy Hospital in Owensboro, Kentucky, He is the youngest child of an engineer and a waiter. He is of Belgian (Flemish), Dutch, English, French, andGerman descent. He's also known to have Native American background as his grandmother was Native American. He grew up with his brother Danny and his sisters Debbie and Christie. He spent a lot of time with his grandfather. His family went to Florida and in the next years, they had to change homes often. Johnny became worse at school and had his first experiences with drugs and sex at the age of 12. He was thrown out of school for smoking pot in the back of the school and started to make music in a band called "The Flame", and later on "The Kids".

His first movie was "Nightmare on Elm Street" in 1984, which was a success. Afterwards, he decided to go to an acting school in Los Angeles. He got a small part in the movie "Platoon" and shortly after this, he was offered a part in the television series "21 Jump Street".

He plays Jack Sparrow in the Pirates of the Caribbean film series and Willy Wonka in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.

His ex-wife is Lori Allison. He was engaged to Sherilyn Fenn in the late 1980s. He had a four-year relationship with Winona Ryder in the mid-1990s. He has a daughter, Lily-Rose Depp (born 1999) and a son John (Jack) Christopher III (born 2002) by his former partner, French singer Vanessa Paradis.

He began a relationship with Amber Heard in 2012. The couple married in February 2015. They divorced in May 2016. Their divorce had a lot of media attention when Heard said that Depp had been abusive throughout their relationship, and Depp in turn said in 2018 that Heard had abused him, before unsuccessfully suing the publishers of British tabloid "The Sun" for English defamation. And she reclaimed him 100 million dollars.

In 2022, Depp sued Heard for defamation in the United States after she wrote an op-ed discussing being a public victim of domestic violence in 2018, describing himself as a victim of cancel culture. The trial began in Virginia on April 11, 2022 and the verdict was reached on June 1, 2022 which found Heard guilty for defamation, resulting in US$10.3 million awarded.

Depp lives in Los Angeles. Depp has bought an island.

Throughout his life, Depp has had many jobs. He has owned a nightclub, called 'The Viper Room'.


Uncle John's Bathroom Reader

Uncle John's Bathroom Readers is the name of a series of books aimed at people who like to read while using the restroom. The books are full of trivia.

The books were first published in 1988. 



