Washington, D.C.


Washington, D.C. (also known as simply Washington or D.C., and officially as the District Of Columbia) is the capital of the United States. It is a federal district. The President of the United States and many major national government offices are in the territory. This makes it the political center of the United States of America.

Washington was named after the first U.S. President George Washington. "D.C." stands for "District of Columbia". At first, it was made up of a piece from Virginia south of the Potomac River and a piece from Maryland north of the Potomac River. In 1847, Virginia's piece was returned to it, and is now Arlington County and part of the city of Alexandria. Since 1847, all of the District of Columbia is on the north side of the Potomac River. The District of Columbia used to have other small towns which used "D.C.".

Since 1800, the District of Columbia has been the home of all three branches of the U.S. government: Congress, the President, and the Supreme Court. All of the major political parties are based here. It is also the headquarters of the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and the Organization of American States (OAS). Because it is the home of the President and is important to American politics, many groups often hold large demonstrations and protests here. These are often at the National Mall, a large open park which has many monuments and museums. The District of Columbia’s many museums and monuments make it a popular place for tourists to visit.

In 2020, the United States Census Bureau said that 689,545 people lived within the District of Columbia.

When English people first came to the area, there was a Native American village on the spot called "Nakochtank". This name survives in the name of the Anacostia River. This river was known for the healing properties of its pure water and it is recorded that the Emperor Powhatan, who lived in what is now Richmond, Virginia, made the trip all the way to Nakochtank once for this reason.

The 1789 United States Constitution said that a capital city would be created in a district, but did not say where it should be. James Madison and others thought it should be far away from other states and cities. This way, it would be independent and not controlled by any state. In 1790, a compromise was reached and capital was placed between Virginia and Maryland. It was a square, ten miles (16 km) long on each side, and split by the Potomac River, which separated the two states. Half of the district was in Maryland and the other half was in Virginia, and the two states gave this land to the government. In 1791, it was named "Washington, the District of Columbia" to honor George Washington. "Columbia" was another name for North America. During the War of 1812, the British burned down many government buildings, including the White House.

Washington, D.C. was planned before it was built. Pierre L'Enfant drew a plan for the city that said where all the streets, parks, and important buildings would be. Unlike most cities in the United States, D.C. has many roundabouts or traffic circles. The city was supposed to have long and wide avenues, and many open spaces for monuments and parks. The National Mall is an example of this.

Washington, D.C. is not a state. Its citizens have less control over their city than most Americans, but D.C. has had an elected mayor and a city council since 1973. But Congress can make it so that a local law doesn't happen. The current mayor of Washington, D.C. is Muriel Bowser, a Democrat.

The license plates on the cars in Washington, D.C. say, "Taxation Without Representation." This is a protest from people who live in Washington, D.C. about having to pay taxes to the United States without having a vote in the United States House of Representatives. It resembles the protest made by colonists before the American Revolution about having to pay taxes to Great Britain. Some people are against letting Washington, D.C. have a Congressman or Congresswoman because the Constitution only allows states to have Congressmen or Congresswomen.

Washington, D.C. is the center of the nation for its arts. The National Symphony Orchestra, the Washington National Opera, and the Washington Ballet are all inside the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The Kennedy Center Honors are given every year to the people who have greatly helped the cultural life of the United States. The President and First Lady usually go to the Honors ceremony.

There are also many museums and memorials in Washington, D.C.. The Smithsonian runs many museums.

Washington D.C. has a humid subtropical climate (Köppen climate classification: "Cfa").

Summers are hot and humid, winters are cool to cold, and spring and fall are mild.

The average yearly precipitation is fairly high at , and is regular throughout the year.

Snow falls a few times each winter, and sometimes in spring and fall, which is usually light and lasts no longer than a few days. Blizzards do occur, but not every winter.

The city gets many summer heat waves that can last for many days, and less commonly winter cold waves that usually last for a few days.

As the national capital of the United States, Washington, D.C. has numerous media outlets in various mediums. Some of these media are known throughout the United States, including "The Washington Post" and various broadcasting networks headquartered in D.C.

"The Washington Post" is a daily newspaper in Washington, D.C. The Washington Post was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for its reporting on the Watergate scandal in 1973. The Washington Post Company has multiple media holdings, including a daily free newspaper called the "Express", the Washington Post News Service with Bloomberg News, "Fashion Washington", "El Tiempo Latino" (a Spanish-language publication), the Slate Group, "The Daily Herald" (in Washington state), as well as the education company Kaplan, Inc. "The Washington Post" emphasizes national and political news coverage but also covers regional and local stories. Headquartered in downtown Washington, the newspaper employs journalists at 11 regional bureaus in Maryland and Virginia and 14 international bureaus. Content is shared across titles within the Washington Post Company, and the "Express", in particular, often reprints content from the Associated Press, Getty Images, and other wire sources.

"Washington Times" and "Washington City Paper" also have substantial readership in the District. On February 1, 2005, the free daily tabloid "Washington Examiner" debuted, having been formed from a chain of suburban newspapers known as the "Journal Newspapers".

"Washington Blade" and "Metro Weekly" focus on gay issues and the "Washington Sun", the "Washington Informer", and also "Washington Afro" on African American issues. Bi-weekly "Street Sense" focuses on issues of homelessness poverty, and life on the streets. Other special-interest papers include "Roll Call", a daily paper focused on politics.

Many neighborhoods in the District have their own community newspapers. Some of these include "The Current Newspapers", which has editions serving Dupont Circle, Foggy Bottom, Georgetown, Chevy Chase and Upper Northwest, and a Capitol Hill paper called "The Capitol Hill Current/Voice of the Hill". Additional papers include "In-Towner" (Dupont Circle, Logan Circle and Adams Morgan), "Hill Rag" (Capitol Hill), "East of the River" (Anacostia) and "D.C. North" (Northeast D.C.). In addition, several specialty newspapers serve the U.S. Congress; most notable are "Roll Call", "The Hill", and "Politico".

As of 2008, the Washington Metropolitan Area was the 9th largest designated market area in the United States, with 2,321,610 television homes (2.028% of the U.S. population). The following is a list of television stations serving the metro area:

Most Baltimore area television stations can be seen in the Washington region. Besides being viewed clearly in the District, they can especially be seen in the suburbs of the Interstate 95 corridor between both cities. They are: WMAR 2 (ABC), WBAL 11 (NBC), WJZ 13 (CBS), WMPT 22 / WMPB 67 (PBS/MPB), WUTB 24 (MyNetwork TV), WBFF 45 (FOX), and WNUV 54 (The CW). A DC-MD-VA regional news station, TBD TV, is carried on Channel 8 on all cable systems in Washington, D.C. and surrounding communities.

Public, educational, and government access (PEG) on cable television is provided by the Public Access Corporation of the District of Columbia on two channels simulcast to both local cable television systems. One channel is devoted to religious programming and the other channel provides a diversity of offerings. The District's two Public, educational, and government access (PEG) Channels are DCTV, a non-profit media outlet that provides training and production opportunities to local residents, and OCT TV-16, which provides information about government programs, services, and related opportunities.

Major national broadcasters and cable outlets including NBC, ABC, CBS, FOX, and CNN maintain a significant presence in Washington, as do those from around the world including the BBC, CBC, and Al Jazeera. The Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) is headquartered in Arlington, Virginia. Also, several cable television networks have their headquarters in the Washington area, including:


As of 2008, the Washington Metropolitan Area was the 9th largest radio market in the United States with a Metro 12+ Population of 4,238,100. The following is a list of radio stations serving the metro area:

According to a 2010 study, Washington-area commuters spent 70 hours a year in traffic delays, which tied with Chicago for having the nation's worst road congestion. However, 37% of Washington-area commuters take public transportation to work, the second-highest rate in the country. An additional 12% of D.C. commuters walked to work, 6% carpooled, and 3% traveled by bicycle in 2010.

Washington has very few freeways. The funds that had been dedicated for freeway construction were instead redirected to the region's public transportation infrastructure. The interstate highways that do continue into Washington, including Interstate 66 and Interstate 395, both terminate shortly upon entering the city.

The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) operates the Washington Metro, the city's rapid transit system, as well as Metrobus. Both systems serve the District and its suburbs. Metro opened on March 27, 1976 and presently consists of 86 stations and of track. With an average of about one million trips each weekday, Metro is the second-busiest rapid transit system in the country, after the New York City Subway. Metrobus serves over 400,000 riders each weekday, making it the nation's sixth-largest bus system. The city also operates its own DC Circulator bus system, which connects commercial areas within central Washington.
Union Station is the main train station in Washington, D.C., and handles about 70,000 people each day. It is Amtrak's second-busiest station with 4.6 million passengers annually and serves as the southern terminus for the Northeast Corridor and Acela Express routes. Maryland's MARC and Virginia's VRE commuter trains and the Metrorail Red Line also provide service into Union Station. Expansion plans announced in 2011 will make Union Station the city's primary intercity bus transit center. A new streetcar system opened in 2016.

Three major airports serve The District. The Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport is across from downtown Washington in Arlington, Virginia and has its own Metrorail station. Major international flights arrive and depart from Washington Dulles International Airport, west of the District in Fairfax and Loudoun counties in Virginia. Dulles gained its own Metrorail station in 2016. Baltimore/Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport is northeast of the District in Anne Arundel County, Maryland.


President of the United States

The president of the United States (POTUS) is the head of state and head of government of the United States of America and the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces. The president is also the head of the executive branch of the federal government of the United States and is the chairman of the presidential cabinet.

Joe Biden is the 46th and current president of the United States, in office since January 2021.

 of the constitution states for a person to serve as president must:

The president is elected by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year term, along with the vice presidential candidate or the incumbent vice president as their running mate. The presidential candidate or incumbent president must have at least 270 electoral college votes in order to win the election.

Under the Twenty-second amendment to the constitution prevents anyone from being elected president more than twice. This amendment was added after Franklin Roosevelt served four terms from 1933 until his death in 1945.

The president-elect of the United States is the candidate who has won the United States presidential election and is awaiting inauguration to become the president.

The president-elect and vice president-elect immediately began their four-year team on inauguration day every four years on January 20. The original inauguration date was held on March 4, but was later changed in 1933.

The Executive Office of the President consists of the offices and agencies that support the work of the president at the center of the executive branch of the United States federal government. The office consists of several offices and agencies, such as the White House Office, the staff working directly for and reporting to the president, including White House staff, the National Security Council, and the Office of Management and Budget.

If the president dies, resigns, or is impeached, the vice president will succeed the presidential office and duties. fifteen other federal government officials also rank in the succession of the president.

Abraham Lincoln, James A. Garfield, William McKinley, and John F. Kennedy were assassinated while in office. William Henry Harrison, Zachary Taylor, Warren G. Harding and Franklin Roosevelt died from illness while president. Calvin Coolidge became president, when Warren G. Harding died while in office.

Richard Nixon is the only U.S. president to have resigned from office.

Andrew Johnson, Bill Clinton, and Donald Trump are the only presidents to have been impeached.

The White House is the official residence of the president and the first family of the United States. it has been the official residence of every U.S. president since John Adams in 1800.
Camp David is the official presidential retreat residence if the president decides to go on vacation along with his family.

Blair House is the official presidential guest house for foreign diplomats and heads of state.

The United States Secret Service is in charge with protecting the president and the first family. As part of their protection, presidents, first ladies, their children and other immediate family members are given Secret Service codenames. These codenames are used for security and safety reasons.

There are five living former presidents of the United States.
By a majority of historical sources by historians or by the American people; Abraham Lincoln, George Washington, Franklin D. Roosevelt , Dwight D. Eisenhower , Woodrow Wilson, Ronald Reagan, John F. Kennedy, Calvin Coolidge, Bill Clinton and Thomas Jefferson are ranked high on polls.

On the other hand; James Buchanan, Warren G. Harding, Herbert Hoover, Richard Nixon, George W. Bush and Franklin Pierce are thought to be the worst.

Since Herbert Hoover, each president has created an institutional place known as a presidential library for preserving and making available his papers, records, and other documents and materials. There are currently thirteen presidential libraries in the NARA system.

Several presidential libraries contain the graves of the president such as Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush.


J. R. R. Tolkien

John Ronald Reuel Tolkien (3 January 1892 – 2 September 1973) was a British philologist, university professor, and writer. Tolkien is best known for his most famous works, "The Hobbit" and "The Lord of the Rings".

He was born in Bloemfontein, South Africa but his parents were both from England. He lost much of his family at an early age. He fought in World War I, and after the war he found a job helping to produce the Oxford English Dictionary. Tolkien was very interested in languages, and he had studied at Oxford University. Soon he became a professor of English Language at the University of Leeds. He was then a professor at the University of Oxford until 1959, when he retired. He also was good friends with many other writers and scholars, most notably C. S. Lewis, who wrote the "Narnia" books, "The Screwtape Letters", and many essays on Christian theology. Tolkien himself was a devout Catholic.

Tolkien married Edith Mary Bratt on 22 March 1916 in England, at the age of 24. They had four children, three sons and a girl: John, Michael, Christopher, and Priscilla.

He created and worked on the fictional fantasy world of Middle-earth for most of his life, and his most famous books are set in that world. Because of his Middle-earth books he is often considered the "father of high fantasy" which made the fantasy genre very popular.

Tolkien wrote other books, for example "Farmer Giles Of Ham", and also illustrated (drew the pictures and maps for) "The Lord of the Rings". "The Lord of the Rings" was published in three parts and has been made into several motion pictures. "The Lord of the Rings" took 12 years to write.



