Skagerrak


Skagerrak is a sea in the northern part of Europe between Norway and Denmark. Skagerrak is a part of the North Sea. To the east is Kattegat.

Close to the Norwegian coast is a deep trench (700 m), the rest of the sea is shallow. Oil and gas are produced from rigs in the Skagerrak.

Kattegat

Kattegat is a sea in the northern part of Europe between the Danish peninsula Jutland, the Danish island Zealand, and the western coast of Sweden.

To the north-west is Skagerrak. Kattegat is connected to the Baltic Sea through the Danish Straits and Belts.

The sea is shallow, and life conditions are threatened by loss of oxygen in the water. The oxygen loss is caused by pollution. The pollution originates from farming. A century ago, the sea was very rich in cod, herring, and salmon, which were important sources of food in the countries around the sea.

Baltic Sea

The Baltic Sea is a sea in northern Europe between Scandinavia, Finland, Russia, the Baltic countries, Poland, and Germany.

Many big rivers in the surrounding countries drain into the Baltic Sea. The Baltic Sea is connected to the ocean through the narrow and shallow Danish straits and belts. For this reason, the water has a low amount of salt, so the northern parts of the sea freeze over in the winter. The ice can carry cars, and roads are established every winter between the islands in the archipelagos between Sweden and Finland.

For several thousand years, the Baltic Sea has connected the countries at her shores. For that reason there are many cultural similarities in these countries. Since all of these countries are European, this sea is also considered European. 

Scandinavia

Scandinavia is a group of countries in northern Europe. Scandinavia has Denmark, Norway, and Sweden. Some people also think Finland is part of Scandinavia and that Iceland and the Faroe Islands should count. Most of the time, "Scandinavia" is used to mean places where people speak Scandinavian languages, also called North Germanic languages or Nordic. The Scandinavian languages (Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic, and Faroese) are very similar to each other, and many Scandinavians understand parts of the other languages because they are alike. Finnish is not part of the North Germanic language group.

What people mean when they say "Scandinavia" depends on what they think is important at the time. When people talk about about maps, natural land formations and how the economy works, they may say Finland is part of Scandinavia but Iceland is not. When people talk about history and what languages people speak, they say Iceland is part of Scandinavia but Finland is not.

The Scandinavian Peninsula is a large peninsula reaching west from northern Europe over the north side of the Baltic Sea. Norway, Sweden and some of Finland are on this peninsula. However, Denmark is considered part of Scandinavia in the ethnic sense more often than Finland is. This is because Danish is a Scandinavian language but Finnish is not.

"Nordic countries" include Norway, Sweden, Denmark (including the Faroe Islands), Finland, and Iceland. These five countries use the Nordic Council to work together on political and cultural activities. Denmark, Sweden, and Finland are also members of the European Union, but only Finland is part of the eurozone, meaning that it uses the Euro as its money. The other Nordic countries still use their own money, called "krone" or "krona" (from the word "crowns"). Norway and Iceland, which are not members of the EU, are members of NATO and the European Free Trade Association (EFTA). Only Denmark and Finland are members of both the EU and NATO.

Most of the Scandinavian Peninsula has only a few people in it. It has large forests of pine, birch, and spruce trees. The western and northern parts are mountainous. The Scandinavian mountains are some of the oldest in the world. The tallest mountain is Galdhøpiggen in Norway. Denmark (43,098 km) is the smallest of the Scandinavian countries. It is more densely populated, and most of the land is farmland. Sweden (449,964 km) is the largest of the Scandinavian countries. It has the most lakes, and the landscape ranges from plains in the south to mountains in the west (along the border with Norway) to tundra in the north. The far north of Scandinavia and Finland is called Lapland, where the Sámi live. Some of them still herd reindeer, but most Sami live in modern houses and have modern jobs, like other Scandinavians.

The most famous group of Scandinavians were the Vikings of the Middle Ages. The Vikings attacked and raided but they were also traders, traveling to Ukraine and starting trade routes to the Middle East.

Vikings from Norway were explorers, crossing the North Atlantic in their longships. They came to Iceland and Greenland and built towns and farms there. The Norwegian explorers also came to the east coast of Canada. They built at least one town there, but it did not last into modern times.

The Vikings from Denmark came to England, where they affected the history and politics and the English language. Danish raiders attacked England many times with great violence. Sometimes the Danes would ask that the English pay them to go away. These payments were called "Danegeld" (Danish gold). The priests and bishops of churches on the east coast of England wrote a famous prayer: "deliver us, O Lord, from the wrath of the Norsemen!" "Norsemen" is another way to say "men from the north," or the Danes.

Much later, in the 19th century (1800s), Richard Wagner and other artists in the Romantic period made operas and other artwork about ancient Germanic culture. They liked the Vikings because they were not Greeks or Romans. They were the first to have the idea of Vikings wearing helmets with wings or horns on them and drinking out of hollowed-out animal horns. Some ancient Germans wore helmets with horns on them, but real Vikings did not. Wagner and his partners dressed the actors in the opera "Ring des Nibelungen" so they would look like ancient Germans and so the audience would feel like modern Germans came from medieval Vikings.

During the 10th through 13th centuries, when the Christian religion spread through Scandiavia, modern countries started to form there. They came together into three kingdoms:
These three Scandinavian kingdoms made the Kalmar Union in 1387 under Queen Margaret I of Denmark. In 1523, Sweden left the union. Because of this, civil war started in Denmark and Norway. Then, the Protestant Reformation happened, and Catholic and Protestant Christians fought each other. After things settled, the Norwegian Privy Council was abolished: it assembled for the last time in 1537. Denmark and Norway formed another union in 1536, and it lasted until 1814. It turned into the three modern countries Denmark, Norway and Iceland.

The borders between Denmark, Sweden and Norway came to the shape they have today in the middle of the 17th century. In the 1645 Treaty of Brömsebro, Denmark–Norway gave some land to Sweden: the Norwegian provinces of Jämtland, Härjedalen and Idre & Särna and the Baltic Sea islands of Gotland and Ösel (in Estonia). The 1658 Treaty of Roskilde forced Denmark–Norway to give the Danish provinces Scania, Blekinge, Halland, Bornholm, and the Norwegian provinces of Båhuslen and Trøndelag to Sweden. In 1660, the Treaty of Copenhagen forced Sweden to give Bornholm and Trøndelag back to Denmark–Norway.

Finland used to be part of Sweden in medieval times. During the wars fought by Napoleon, it became part of Russia.

Minerva (automobile)

In 1883 a young Belgian called Sylvain de Jong settled in Antwerp, Belgium. He started a bicycle factory there. By the end of that century he started producing motorbikes, and after a while automobiles as well. In 1903 he grounded the NV Minerva Motors' in Berchem (Antwerp).
A certain Charles S Rolls was Minerva dealer in England. The small 1 cylinder "Minervette" was there with its 105 Pound, the cheapest automobile. 
In the years after the fame of the automobile was rising enormous. Most important market for the constructor remained however England that took the biggest part of the production, followed by the Netherlands and France. 
From 1908 Minerva got a worldwide Knight licence. The Knight motor was a motor without valves, developed by Charles Y Knight in the United States. These motors were extremely silent. The company did well in several automobile racing competitions in Europe. 
After worldwar I, during which Sylvain de Jong and his engineers headed to Amsterdam, where they kept on developing parts, they returned to start up the production of luxury automobiles. The constructors star rose in the United States as well, American filmstars, politicians and industrials liked them cars as well (even Henry Ford had before the WW already one!). The car had the same qualities as the Rolls Royce, but was a little cheaper. With the economical crisis in the 30's, the company went bankrupt in 1936. The remains were taken over by another Belgian constructor named Imperia. Imperia putted the name Minerva on their automobiles for export to England and France and for the trucks (which Minerva had made before too). 
After worldwar II the company produced Land Rovers under licence for the Belgian army. Production of these 4Wheel Drives stopped in 1953. The company struggled for survival and made some Land Rover-like cars till 1956. But than the constructor diappeared completely. 


E. B. White

Elwyn Brooks White (July 11, 1899 – October 1, 1985) was an American writer.

He is most famous for his 1959 manual about how to write well in English, "The Elements of Style" (which was first written by William Strunk Jr. in 1918), and also for his three children's books "Stuart Little" (1945), "Charlotte's Web" (1952), and the "Trumpet of the Swan" (1970).

He also wrote for magazines and newspapers in the United States.

E.B. White won many awards, including a Pulitzer Prize.

E.B. White had 1 child named Joel White


Raffles Institution

Raffles Institution is an independent educational institution in Singapore. The school provides secondary education for boys only from Year 1 to Year 4, and pre-university education for both boys and girls in Year 5 and Year 6. The school offers the Gifted-Education Programme and the Integrated Programme. The schools is known to have 96 President's Scholars. The school alumni include first prime minister of Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew and the first president of Singapore, Yusof Ishak.

It was founded in 1823 as Singapore Institution by Sir Stamford Raffles, the founder of modern Singapore. It is the school with the longest history in Singapore. Its name was changed to "Raffles Institution" in 1868.

The current principal of Raffles Institution is Mr Frederick Yeo, who replaced Mr Chan Poh Meng when he left the school at the end of 2017.

Sir Stamford Raffles founded Raffles Institution on 5 June 1823, making it the school with the longest history in Singapore. Raffles Institution was along Bras Basah Road at first, where Raffles City is now. The school moved to Grange Road in 1973, and then moved to its current location at Bishan in 1990. The Grange Road campus is now the MOE Teacher's Network.


Archipelago

An archipelago () is a chain or group of islands. The word "archipelago" means "chief sea", from Greek "arkhon" ("arkhi"-) ("leader") and "pelagos" ("sea").

Archipelagos are usually found in the open sea; less commonly, a big landmass may neighbor them, an example being Scotland which has more than 700 islands surrounding the mainland. Many archipelagos are volcanic, forming along mid-ocean ridges or hotspots. Others are island arcs neighboring an oceanic trench. Many other processes create archipelagos, including erosion, deposition, and land elevation.

The four biggest countries that are mainly archipelagos are Japan, the Philippines, the United Kingdom and Indonesia (the world's biggest country that is an archipelago, according to the CIA World Factbook). The biggest archipelago in the world by size is in Northern Canada, the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, which is in the Arctic Ocean.

Baltic states

The Baltic states are three countries in Northern Europe to the east of the Baltic Sea and the south of the Gulf of Finland. They are, from north to south, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. The languages that are spoken in these countries are different: while Lithuanians and Latvians speak Baltic languages (Latvian and Lithuanian), Estonians speak an Uralic language (Estonian).

By their culture and history, the Baltic countries are close to the Nordic countries. The biggest difference in the history was that the Baltic countries incorporated to the Soviet Union in 1940 (during the Second World War), but not the Nordic countries (with the exception of Karelia, a part of Finland which later joined the Russian SFSR). The three countries would become republics of the Soviet Union as the Estonian SSR, Latvian SSR, and Lithuanian SSR.

All three Baltic states had their freedom back in 1991, when the Soviet Union came to an end. However, the states all consider the Soviet occupation to be illegal, which has been supported by the United States, European Union, and United Nations. Today, the Baltic countries are some of the richest and most advanced countries which were part of the Soviet Union. They became members of the European Union and NATO in 2004, joined the Schengen Area in 2007, and became part of the eurozone by 2015.

Paganism was the religion of Baltic people before most of them took Christianity during the Middle Ages. Baltic paganism never died out and some people are still pagans.

Topography

Topography means "the description of shape". The word comes from Greek: ' "place" and ' "(I) write". It is an important part of earth science.

When you talk of the topography of the land, you refer to the landscape features like valleys, hills and mountains, rivers and lakes, or the coastline. Everything that describes the form of the landscape, is part of the topography. Topographic maps show topography.


Bornholm

Bornholm is a small, rocky island in the Baltic Sea. Bornholm is a Danish island.

The island is a popular holiday resort for Scandinavians, Germans and Poles. Many yachters come here in the summer.

At the end of World War II, the island was "liberated" by the Soviet red army, and held for several months after the German surrender. The island lies far east of the demarcation line between the allied forces in Europe. For some time the Soviet presence looked like an occupation. It was not until April 5th, 1946 that the island at last was free.
But then the Danish government took over and the island is today a Danish colony. But the struggle for a free island still goes on as it can be seen on this page Free Bornholm

Budapest

Budapest is the capital and largest city of Hungary. It was made as such in 1873. In that year, three towns on the River Danube, namely "Buda", "Óbuda (Old Buda)" and "Pest" were united. About 1.7 million people live in the city. Its highest place is "János Hill (527 m)."

Budapest has a humid subtropical climate with relatively cold winters and quite warm summers.

Celtic tribes lived there before 1 AD. Later, the Roman Empire transformed the first settlements into the Roman town of Aquincum. The Hungarians arrived in the territory of modern Hungary only at the end of 9th century AD.

Budapest also became the co-capital of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, a great power that dissolved in 1918 after World War I. The city was the focal point of the Hungarian Revolution of 1848, the Battle of Budapest in 1945, and the Hungarian Revolution of 1956.

Budapest has historical buildings, baths and parks.

The Roman Catholic cathedral, St. Stephen's Basilica, is in the 5th district of Budapest. The church is a Neo-Renaissance-style cathedral. It is one of the most significant church buildings in Hungary. The building is named in honor of the Hungarian founding king, St. Stephen (975-1038), whose right hand, the Holy Right, is kept here as a relic. With a height of 96 meters, it is the fourth-tallest building in the country and the third tallest in the capital after the Parliament and the MOL Campus. 

The former royal palace, the Buda Castle -as part of the Castle District- has been part of Budapest's World Heritage Sites since 1987. The Gothic-style royal palace was built in the 1300s and lasted until the end of the 1400s. Due to the Turkish occupation from 1541 to 1686, very serious damage was done to both the castle and the buildings of the Castle District. In the building of the palace, the National Széchényi Library has been located in the back, decorated with Art Nouveau elements, and the Hungarian National Gallery and the Budapest History Museum are located in the palace.

Also on the Castle Hill, the Matthias Church is a Gothic church with a great historical past. It was originally built in Romanesque style in 1015, but was destroyed during the Mongol invasion in 1241. The current building was built in the 14th century and underwent a thorough reconstruction in the late 19th century. After the occupation of Buda, the church was transformed into a mosque, during which the late Gothic frescoes inside the church were destroyed. After the liberation of Buda, according to the plans of Frigyes Schulek, it was restored to its second, Gothic state. During the Second World War, it was used as a camp by the Germans and the Soviets during the siege of Budapest.

The Hungarian Parliament Building, also known as the Parliament of Budapest after its location, is the seat of the National Assembly of Hungary, a notable landmark of Hungary, and a popular tourist destination in Budapest. It is situated on the Kossuth Lajos Square in the Pest side of the city, on the eastern bank of the Danube. It was designed by Hungarian architect Imre Steindl in neo-Gothic style and opened in 1902. It has been the largest building in Hungary since its completion, and the third biggest Parliament building in the world.

Further north, the building of the National Police Headquarters (in the common language “Police-Palace”) located in the Árpád Göncz City Center. Since its completion, its shape and size have been one of the defining buildings of the whole of Budapest in terms of cityscape. The plans were completed in the 1990s by József Finta and Géza Meichl, and their construction was financed by Postabank collaborating with the Hungarian police. 36,000 cubic meters of concrete and 4.5 thousand tons of rebar were used for the construction. The headquarters can be divided into two parts, one eight-story and columnar and the other sixteen stories and cylindrical, with police antennas at the top that extend 93 meters high. In 2007, an unknown person fired at the building with a machine gun.

On the south, in the 10th district of Budapest, located the transmission tower on Száva Street. With a height of 154 meters, it is the third-tallest structure in Budapest (after the Mount Széchenyi TV mast and the chimney of Óbuda Power Plant). The tower is well visible from the southern Pest region of the capital, but it can be seen in several lookouts of Buda too. It was built in 1987, and it is currently owned by Hungarian Telekom. As a backbone transmitter, it broadcasts digital terrestrial radio (T-DAB +) and digital television channels (DVB-T standard, MinDig TV and mobile phone DVB-H).

Other landmarks in Budapest are the Citadel, the Statue of Liberty, the Millenium Monument, the Zoo, the Hungarian National Museum, the Great Market Hall, the Dohány Street Synagogue and the famous thermal baths (Széchenyi, Szent Gellért, Király). Budapest is also known for the ruins of Aquincum, the capital city of the Roman Province of Pannonia.

It has the oldest subway-line in mainland Europe.

Twin cities of Budapest:




