Zimbabwe


The Republic of Zimbabwe is a country in the southern part of the continent of Africa. Its capital city is Harare.

Zimbabwe is surrounded by other countries, and so it has no coast on the sea. This type of country is called "landlocked". The countries that surround Zimbabwe are Zambia, Botswana, South Africa and Mozambique.

Zimbabwe is home to the famous waterfall, Victoria Falls, which are a feature of the river Zambezi and also the Great Zimbabwe, the ancient architectural monument from which the country was named after.

The country is mostly savanna. In the east it is moist and mountainous with tropical evergreen and hardwood forests. Trees include teak and mahogany, knobthorn, msasa and baobab. Among the many flowers and shrubs are hibiscus, spider lily, leonotus, cassia, tree wisteria and dombeya.
There are around 350 species of mammals in Zimbabwe. There are also many snakes and lizards, over 500 bird species, and 131 fish species.

The area that is now Zimbabwe was added to the British Empire around 1890. Zimbabwe is also known by its old name of Rhodesia. In 1965, it became an independent country when Prime Minister Ian Smith announced the Unilateral Declaration of Independence(U.D.I). The government was mostly controlled by the white population, similar to South Africa at the time. African citizens were given full equality in 1980, and the country's name was officially changed to Zimbabwe. Robert Mugabe led the country as the Prime Minister and President for 37 years. Though Mugabe was elected fairly at first, he became a dictator, and had put in place a number of cruel and disastrous laws. On November 21, 2017, Mugabe resigned as President of Zimbabwe.

The country Zimbabwe has a mixture of languages; Shona, Ndebele, Venda, Manyika, Nyanja, Chagani, and a unique-unified Zimbabwean English.

Zimbabwe uses the currencies of several other countries. The government uses the United States dollar. The economy is currently in a bad situation. Foreign currency reserves are at very low levels, and the Zimbabwean Dollar has become very devalued. Just recently, three zeroes were taken off the Zimbabwean dollar (for example, $1,000,000 (one million dollars) would become $1000 (one thousand dollars)). Many observers link this to Mugabe's controversial Land Reform programme.

On November 15, 2017, President Robert Mugabe was placed under house arrest as Zimbabwe's military took control in a coup. On November 21, 2017, Mugabe resigned the Presidency.

Zimbabwe is divided into 8 provinces and 2 cities that are the same as a province.

The largest cities are:
Football is the most popular sport in Zimbabwe. Rugby union and cricket are also popular. Zimbabwe has won eight Olympic medals.

Zimbabwe has also done well in the Commonwealth Games and All-Africa Games. Kirsty Coventry won 11 gold medals in swimming.
Zimbabwe has also been at Wimbledon and the Davis Cup in tennis. Zimbabwe has also done well in golf. Other sports played in Zimbabwe are basketball, volleyball, netball, and water polo, as well as squash, motorsport, martial arts, chess, cycling, polocrosse, kayaking and horse racing. Most of these sports don't have international representatives but instead stay at a junior or national level.


Monaco

Monaco, officially the Principality of Monaco (French: Principauté de Monaco), is the second smallest country in the world after the Vatican City. Monaco is a city-state, meaning that the entire country is just one city.

Monaco is located south-east of France, on the Mediterranean Sea in Western Europe. Monaco's official language is French while the language of Monégasque is also a national language. Monaco's population is around 38,000 but under 10,000 of its citizens are Monégasque nationals.

The currency is the Euro, even though Monaco is not part of the European Union. Monaco is considered a tax haven and is often regarded as one of the wealthiest countries in the world because many rich people live there.

Monaco is famous for the Monte Carlo Casino and the Monte Carlo Opera, is in the north-east of the country. Monaco is also famous for two car races: the Monte Carlo Rally and the Monaco Grand Prix.

Monaco began as a city named Monoikos and was under the control of the Holy Roman Empire, which later gave it to the Republic of Genoa. 

In 1297, Francesco Grimaldi and his army captured the fortress on the Rock of Monaco, but they were evicted by the Geonoese army. However, the Grimaldi family continued to fight for Monaco over the next century. Rainier I was the first Grimaldi ruler of Monaco.

The Republic of Genoa eventually lost Monaco while fighting the Crown of Aragon. In 1419, the Grimaldi family purchased Monaco from Aragon. In 1642, Honoré II, gave himself the title "Prince of Monaco". Until then, the rulers of Monaco were called the "Lords of Monaco".

In 1793, Monaco was invaded by France. In 1814, the principality became independent again. However, a year later, the Congress of Vienna designated Monaco as a protectorate of the Kingdom of Sardinia. In 1860, Monaco became a French protectorate once again.

At the time, the towns of Menton and Roquebrune-Cap-Martin were part of Monaco. However, the citizens of these towns wanted to be part of France. Charles III gave the towns to France in exchange for Monaco's full independence. A treaty was signed in 1861 which said that France would protect Monaco in case of a war.

In the early 1900s, Monaco became very popular among wealthy people because of the Monte Carlo casino. In 1910, there was a revolution in Monaco because the people wanted a democracy. Because of this, the powers of the Prince of Monaco were reduced. During World War II, Monaco was occupied by Italy.

Prince Rainier III famously married American actress Grace Kelly, who died in a car crash. In 2005, Albert II became the new Prince of Monaco.

Monaco is entirely an urban area, meaning that it is all one city. There is only one natural resource in Monaco, which is fishing. The climate is a Mediterranean climate. There are land reclamation projects ongoing.

Its surface area is 2.02 square kilometres, of which approximately 0.4 were recovered from the sea since 1980.

Monaco is a constitutional monarchy, meaning that the head of state is a monarch with little to no say in the way the country is governed. Monaco is a principality, which is a type of monarchy where the monarch holds the title of Sovereign Prince. 

The constitution of Monaco designates three councils to run the country. The three councils are:


In addition, Monaco is divided into ten administrative wards. 

Monaco has no military and is protected by France. However, it does have a police force of around 515 members.

Tourism is the main industry. Tourism is extremely popular during the Monaco Grand Prix. People in Monaco pay no income tax. Many rich people live in Monaco and it is known for being very wealthy. Another large industry is gambling due to the Monte Carlo Casino.

Monaco's culture is heavily influenced by its surrounding countries such as France and Italy. The main religion is Catholicism. The cuisine is influenced by that of northern Italy and southern France.

In terms of music, Monaco has an opera house, a symphony orchestra and a classical ballet company. Monaco has participated regularly in the Eurovision Song Contest, winning in 1971. 

There are three museums in Monaco.

The Principality of Monaco hosts major international events such as :


Monaco also has an annual bread festival on 17 September every year.

Monaco has ten state-operated schools, including: seven nursery and primary schools; one secondary school; one "lycée" that provides general and technological training and one lycée that provides vocational and hotel training. 

There are also two grant-aided denominational private schools.

There is one university located in Monaco, namely the International University of Monaco (IUM).

Supermarkets in the United Kingdom

The main supermarket chains in the United Kingdom are:

Jettingen

Jettingen is a village in the south-west of Baden-Württemberg, Germany.
There are 7,657 people living in "Jettingen".

Ken Jennings

Kenneth Wayne Jennings III (born May 23, 1974) is the highest money earning contestant on the American television game show "Jeopardy!". He won a total of 74 times, earning $2,522,700. His winning streak lasted from June 2, 2004 through November 30, 2004. He lost after that time to a player named Nancy Zerg, who lost within a day to Katie Fitzgerald. He was brought back to appear in the final three games of the show's Ultimate Tournament of Champions. In the tournament, he lost to Brad Rutter, who became the highest money winner on "Jeopardy!".

According to the introduction given at the start of the show, Jennings is a "Software Engineer from Salt Lake City, Utah" His highest one day total was a record $75,000, which was later broken by Roger Craig in 2010. Jennings is a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, or Mormon.

In February 2005, Ken started appearing in Cingular commercials as himself.

In October 2008, Jennings appeared on an episode of "Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader?". He won $500,000, making him the highest winner in game show history once again.

In February 2011, Jennings, along with Rutter, competed in the "IBM Challenge" against an artificial intelligence computer named Watson. Jennings placed second, losing to Watson. He won half of a $300,000 prize; with the other half going to charity.

In the spring of 2014, Jennings and Rutter competed in the Jeopardy! Battle of the Decades tournament. They faced off in the finals alongside Roger Craig. Rutter won the tournament with the $1,000,000 top prize, reclaiming the game show record from Jennings.

In January 2020, Jennings beat Rutter and James Holzhauer in Jeopardy! The Greatest of All Time, claiming the $1,000,000 first place prize.

During Season 37 of "Jeopardy!", Jennings became a consulting producer and records video clues. In January 2021, he became a guest host after the death of longtime host Alex Trebek. And during the show's 38th Season, Jennings and Mayim Bialik are co-hosting the show after Mike Richards resigned.


Sublimation (phase transition)

Sublimation is how a solid becomes a gas without becoming a liquid first. It happens when the particles of a solid absorb enough energy to completely overcome the force of attraction between them. Most substances can sublimate only at low pressure. Many can sublimate in space. 

Sometimes snow sublimates. This is usually on sunny winter days when the air is very dry. Snow may look like it disappears on a cold sunny day, but this is not sublimation because it forms a thin layer of liquid water first.

At normal atmospheric pressure on the surface of the Earth, only some compounds like dry ice (solid carbon dioxide) can go through this process. CO changes from dry ice, a solid to a gas without being a liquid. Also diamond, graphite, iodine, ammonium chloride and aluminium chloride sublime rather than melt at atmospheric pressure.

Malcolm McDowell

Malcolm McDowell (born Malcolm John Taylor; 13 June 1943) is an English actor and producer. He has been in many films, including: "A Clockwork Orange", "O Lucky Man!" and "Caligula".

McDowell lives in Ojai, California.

MAD Magazine

MAD Magazine is a humor and satire magazine that started in 1952 as a 10 cent comic book parody of other comics. For its 25th issue it converted to a 25 cent magazine. It remains popular in the United States.

Each issue features the grinning red-headed mascot, Alfred E. Neuman on the cover, and comic-like articles making fun of recent movies, television series, music, trends, etc. as well as regular monthly features (Spy Vs. Spy, Monore, etc.)

Traverse City, Michigan

Traverse City is a town in the northern Lower Peninsula of Michigan, United States. Traverse City is famous for its cherries. It has a beautiful beach, world-class hotels, but the zoo has been closed because not many people visited it.

Will Smith

Willard Carroll Smith II (born September 25, 1968) is an American actor, producer and rapper. He got his start as part of the rap duo DJ Jazzy Jeff and the Fresh Prince. He became an actor when he starred on the television show "The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air" as Will Smith, a teenager from Philadelphia sent to live with his rich relatives in Southern California. He has appeared in many movies including "Independence Day", "Men in Black", "Ali", "Wild Wild West", "The Pursuit of Happyness", "I Am Legend", and in "Suicide Squad".

In 2022, he won a Golden Globe Award, BAFTA Award, Screen Actors Guild Award and an Academy Award for his role as Richard Williams in the 2021 drama movie "King Richard". He is the first rapper to win an acting Oscar.

Smith married actress Jada Pinkett in 1997. They have three children, including Jaden and Willow.

At the 94th Academy Awards in March 2022, Smith slapped comedian Chris Rock after he made a joke about his wife, Jada's, bald head. Smith was criticized for his violent reaction and on April 1, 2022 Smith resigned his membership from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and said he would support any punishment by the academy. Smith has been banned from going to the Oscar ceremonies for 10 years.



