Torquay


Torquay (pronounced: "tor-KEE") is a coastal town in Devon, South West England. It is perhaps most famous as birthplace of writer Agatha Christie and setting of the TV show, Fawlty Towers.

Andrew Sachs

Andrew Sachs (Andreas Siegfried Sachs, 7 April 1930 – 23 November 2016) was a German-British actor. 

Sachs was born in Berlin. His family was Jewish. In 1938, they left Germany for London, shortly after Adolf Hitler became Germany's leader. 

Sachs is best known for his role as Manuel on "Fawlty Towers". He also played Albert Einstein in a 1996 episode of Nova on PBS, and provided all the voices in the English version of the 1994 movie version of "Faust". 

He was involved in a controversy when Russell Brand and Jonathan Ross left obscene phone messages on his answerphone stating that Brand had had sex with his granddaughter Georgina Baillie, a member of the Satanic Sluts.

Sachs died on 23 November 2016 at a nursing home in Northwood, London from vascular dementia, aged 86.


The Seven Samurai

The Seven Samurai is a Japanese movie, written and directed by Akira Kurosawa, and released in 1954. It is a black and white movie.

The fictional plot is set in Japan in 1587, which is the 15th year of "Tenshō".

People in a village are worried about thieves and decide to get samurai to help defend them. It is hard to get enough samurai. The samurai that help do it for different reasons. There is a lot of planning while they are waiting for the thieves. There is a big fight with the thieves at the end.

"The Magnificent Seven" was an American movie Western with a similar story. This is called a remake.

The movie was also adapted into an Japanese anime series in 2004 by GONZO, entitled Samurai 7. The anime series takes a more futuristic and fantasy take at the original story, replacing robots for thieves and bestowing superhuman abilities to the 7 samurais.


Vacuum tube

A vacuum tube, also called a valve in British English, is an electronic device used in many older model radios, television sets, and amplifiers to control electric current flow. The cathode is heated, as in a light bulb, so it will emit electrons. This is called thermionic emission. The anode is the part that accepts the emitted electrons. The device may have other parts. Vacuum tubes must be hot to work. Most are made of glass, thus are fragile and can break. Vacuum tubes were used in the first computers like the ENIAC, which were large and need much work to continue operating.

Although the vacuum tube was invented by John Ambrose Fleming in 1904, it was Thomas Edison who discovered the "Edison effect" in 1883 which states that electricity does not necessarily need a solid material to move through; it can move through gas or vacuums as well.

John Ambrose Fleming invented the first vacuum tube, the diode, in 1904. Lee De Forest invented the "audion" in 1906 (which was improved by others as the triode in 1908) and used in the first telephone amplifiers. Many other kinds were invented for various purposes. 

The transistor became cheaper in the 1960s and was much smaller, worked on lower voltages, and used less power. In addition, unlike vacuum tubes, they were much less likely to be damaged by being dropped and had extremely long life. Eventually, they were also much cheaper than glass vacuum tubes. At this time, most radios, television sets, and amplifiers began using transistors instead. High powered electronics such as broadcasting transmitters were transistorized more slowly. Television receivers continued using the cathode ray tube until the mid-2000s.

In the 21st century, vacuum tubes are rarely used in common electronic equipment. Many devices today rely on the transistor over the vacuum tube. Some devices that still use the vacuum tube, however, include:


Tupac Shakur

Tupac Amaru Shakur (June 16, 1971 – September 13, 1996) was an American rapper and actor, also known as 2Pac and Makaveli, who sold many records. Shakur has sold over 75 million albums worldwide as of 2010. Shakur began his career as a roadie, backup dancer, and MC for the alternative hip hop group Digital Underground as "MC New York". He eventually branched off as a solo artist. He became a West Coast hip hop icon after the release of his first album, "2Pacalypse Now", in 1991.

He was born in East Harlem, New York. Tupac moved to Baltimore in 1984. Then, he moved to the San Francisco Bay Area in 1988. When he was in high school, he was a student at the Baltimore School for the Arts. Later in his music career, this experience in school becomes his personality of his own music style. He was the son of Afeni Shakur and Billy Garland, who were members of the Black Panther Party. His family was struggling with poverty. They moved homes often, and even had to stay in shelters.

Tupac was involved in the East Coast–West Coast hip hop feud. On September 7, 1996, Shakur was shot four times by an unknown assailant in a drive-by shooting in Las Vegas, Nevada. He died six days later from respiratory failure and cardiopulmonary arrest during his operation. Since Shakur's death, seven more albums have been released. They have all been certified platinum.

Shakur acted in eight movies.

He holds the Guinness World Record for the highest selling rap/hip hop artist, selling 165 million worldwide and 43 million in the US alone. He was even listed as 13th of the top 50 poets of all time (by poetry soup) and the 83rd Greatest artist of all time (by Rolling Stone). On June 7, 2023, Tupac was awarded a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.

Shakur was convicted of assault and sexual assault in separate incidents.

His work of music had very big influences on the Hip-hop/rap industry in the US. 

In 2014, a biographical movie about Tupac was announced. The movie, titled "All Eyez on Me", was released on June 16, 2017.

He was born as Lesane Crooks in East Harlem, New York. Crooks was later renamed Tupac Amaru Shakur after Túpac Amaru II, a ruler in Peru. His family later moved to Marin City, California when Tupac was 17. Tupac went to the Baltimore School for the Arts, where he found it interesting to read Shakespeare's poems. He got very affected by the beauty of rhyming, choosing the word and expression. He studied poetry, acting, jazz, and ballet.

In 1990, Shakur joined with the Oakland, California-based alternative hip hop group Digital Underground. He appeared on two of the group's albums in 1991: "This Is an EP Release" and "Sons of the P". Later that year he produced and released his first solo album, "2Pacalypse Now". The album protested problems such as racism, and made him much more popular. 

His second album, "Strictly 4 My N.I.G.G.A.Z.," was released in 1993. It contained the hit singles "I Get Around" and "Keep Ya Head Up."

His third album, "Me Against the World," was released in 1995. It debuted at number one on the Billboard 200. He was incarcerated (in prison) at the time. 

His fourth album, "All Eyez on Me" (1996), was the last album released during his lifetime. All Eyez on Me included the "Billboard" Hot 100 number one singles "How Do U Want It?" and "California Love." 

Shakur won the Soul Train Music Award for Best Rap Album in 1996 for ‘Me Against the World’. He received the American Music Award for the Favorite Rap/Hip Hop artist posthumously in 1997.

Several of Shakur's albums were released posthumously. It contained previously recorded material from when he was alive.

On September 7, 1996, Shakur was shot four times in a drive-by shooting by someone in a Cadillac car at the intersection of Flamingo Road and Koval Lane in Las Vegas, Nevada. He died six days later at the Southern Nevada University Medical Center. His murder is still unsolved.

Shakur's friend and labelmate from Death Row Records, Marion "Suge" Knight, was in the car with Shakur. Knight survived the shooting.

In 1998, a prime suspect in Shakur’s murder, Orlando Anderson (aka Baby Lane) was killed in another drive-by shooting. Shakur once attacked Anderson. 

In 2002, reporter Chuck Phillips wrote in the "Los Angeles Times" that another rapper called Biggie Smalls (The Notorious B.I.G.) could have paid members of the Crips street gang to kill Shakur and that he could have given them the gun.

On September 29, 2023, Duane "Keffe D" Davis was named as a suspect and was arrested by the Las Vegas Police Department in connection with the murder of Shakur. Keffe D had previously admitted to killing Tupac on July 2, 2018 when he [thought that he was going to die soon, or] was dying from cancer. A trial against Davis is scheduled to start in June 2024.

There were four people in the car that was used by the suspects during the murder, according to the media. Three of the suspects are dead as of 2023.

There are murals of Shakur in North America (New York), South America (Brazil), Africa (Sierra Leone), and Europe (Bulgaria). There are also statues of him in Atlanta and Germany.



