Nazism


Nazism (or National Socialism; ) is a set of political beliefs associated with the Nazi Party of Germany. It started in the 1920s, but the Nazi Party gained power in 1933 and started carrying out their ideas in Germany, which they called the Third Reich. They stayed in power in Germany until 1945, when they lost World War II.

Nazism is an far-right, fascist, ideology that is heavily inspired from the works of Oswald Spengler. The Nazis believed that only the Aryan (German) race was capable of building nations and other races, notably the Jewish race, were agents of the corruptive forces of capitalism and Marxism, both of which the Nazis opposed. They considered the Aryan race the 'Master race', which meant that they thought that the Aryans were the most biologically evolved of humans. They adapted Charles Darwin's theory of evolution and applied it to humans, the practical application of this was called eugenics. 

The leader of the Nazis Adolf Hitler wanted to a create a country where all Aryans were treated equally. They spent heavily on poorer people and began several huge government programs to help Germany deal with the unemployment and economic crisis caused by the Wall Street Crash of 1929 and the Great Depression which followed it. Some Nazis, such as Ernst Röhm, wanted the reforms to go further and called for a revolution, eliminating economic classes in Germany and for the government to take control of major businesses. Many of these Nazis were murdered on Hitler's orders during the Night of the Long Knives because they were a threat to his leadership of the Nazi Party.
In a September 18, year 1939 editorial, "The New York Times" reacted to the signing of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact by declaring that "Hitlerism is brown communism, Stalinism is red fascism" The editorial further opined:
The world will now understand that the only real 'ideological' issue is one between democracy, liberty and peace on the one hand and despotism, terror and war on the other.
The Nazis blamed the Jewish people for Germany's defeat in World War I. This is known as the Stab in the Back Myth. The Nazis also blamed the Jewish people for rapid inflation and practically every other economic woe facing Germany at the time as a result of their defeat in World War I. For this reason, the Nazis not only viewed the Jewish people as inferior to them, but as oppressors of the Aryan people who were creating inequality. The Nazis' tactic of lazily albeit effectively blaming the Jewish people for all of Germany's problems is a propaganda tactic known as scapegoating and was used to justify the great atrocities committed by the Nazis against the Jewish people.

To implement the racist ideas, the Nuremberg Race Laws (created in 1935) banned non-Aryans and political opponents of the Nazis from the civil-service. They also forbid any sexual contact between 'Aryan' and 'non-Aryan' persons.

The Nazis sent millions of Jews, Roma, and other people to concentration camps and death camps, where they were killed. These killings are now called the Holocaust.

The word "Nazi" is short for "Nationalsozialist" (supporter of the "Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei") in the German language. This means "National Socialist German Workers' Party".

Adolf Hitler, the leader of Nazi Germany, wrote a book called "Mein Kampf" ("My Struggle"). The book said that all of Germany's problems happened because Jews were making plans to hurt the country. He also said that Jewish and communist politicians planned the Armistice of 1918 that ended World War I, and allowed Germany to agree to pay huge amounts of money and goods (reparations).

In November 1923, the Nazis tried to overthrow the democratic German government that had been set up after WWI. Nazi thinking emphasises conflict and violence, and believes that these are the best way to sort out political problems. The Nazis had therefore set up their own private army, called the Sturmabteilung (SA) which were sometimes known as the 'Nazi stormtroopers' or simply the 'brownshirts'. Many political parties had their own private armies at this time in Germany to guard their events and meetings from the private armies of other political parties. The attempt to take power is referred to as the Munich Putsch or Beer Hall Putsch and was crushed after less than 24 hours.

After the Putsch, Hitler was imprisoned for six months and the Nazi Party briefly banned. It was allowed to exist again in if it promised to only be democratic. The Nazis agreed, but made it clear that if they took power in Germany, they would turn Germany into a dictatorship. The Nazis believed in something called the Führer Principle, which means that they believe that all groups should be organised like armies, with absolute loyalty shown to the leader of the group. They wanted to apply this principle to Germany. They disagreed with democracy, because they believed that it divided groups which made them weaker.

The Nazis performed very badly in elections until the early 1930s, where they became exceptionally popular. This can be partly explained by a massive increase in poverty in Germany caused by the Wall Street Crash of 1929, and Nazi promises to rebuild German strength and pride. However, this is not the only reason for the Nazis coming to power, because it still took more than three years for Adolf Hitler to become Chancellor of Germany after the Crash.

On the night of the 27 February 1933 and 28 February 1933, someone set the Reichstag building on fire. This was the building where the German Parliament held their meetings. The Nazis blamed the communists. Opponents of the Nazis said that the Nazis themselves had done it to come to power. On the very same day, an emergency law called "Reichstagsbrandverordnung" was passed. The government claimed it was to protect the state from people trying to hurt the country. With this law, most of the civil rights of the Weimar Republic did not count any longer. The Nazis used this against the other political parties. Members of the communist and social-democratic parties were put into prison or killed.

The Nazis became the biggest party in the parliament. By 1934, they managed to make all other parties illegal. Democracy was replaced with a dictatorship. Adolf Hitler became leader ("Führer") of Germany, and had the power to make any laws he wanted.
The Nazis changed Germany to fit their ideas of what a country should be like. They created a totalitarian state, which is a country where the government tries to have total control over ordinary people's lives.

In schools, several subjects were changed to fit a Nazi interpretation. History was taught to emphasise German military victories and blames Jewish people and Marxists for defeat in WWI. Children were also taught racial hygiene lessons, where pseudo-scientific racist principles taught to them. In 1936, all German children had to be members of the Hitler Youth which was a Nazi version of the Scouting movement, and was designed to prepare them to be soldiers in wars against other races.

People who opposed the Nazis were seen as traitors. The Nazis created a very effective police state, led by Heinrich Himmler and his deputy Reinhard Heydrich. They were in charge of an organisation called the Schutzstaffel (SS) that took control of all of the police forces in Germany. The SS also set up a new secret police organisation called the Gestapo which hunted down people who wanted to protest against the Nazi government. Enemies of the Nazis were regularly tortured, put in concentration camps or executed.

As the German leader (Führer) of Nazi Germany, Hitler began moving Nazi armies into neighboring countries. When Germany attacked Poland, World War II started. Western countries like France, Belgium, and the Netherlands were occupied and to be treated by Germany as colonies. However, in Eastern countries, such as Poland and the Soviet Union, the Nazis planned to kill or enslave the Slavic peoples, so that German settlers could take their land.

The Nazis made alliances with other European countries, such as Finland and Italy. Every other European country that allied with Germany did it because they did not want to be taken over by Germany. Through these alliances and invasions, the Nazis managed to control much of Europe.

In the Holocaust, millions of Jews, as well as Roma people (also called "Gypsies"), people with disabilities, homosexuals, political opponents, and many other people were sent to concentration camps and death camps in Poland and Germany. The Nazis killed millions of these people at the concentration camps with poison gas. The Nazis also killed millions of people in these groups by forcing them to do slave labor without giving them much food or clothing. In total, 17 million people died, 6 million of them being Jews.

In 1945, the Soviet Union took over Berlin after defeating the German army in Russia. The Soviet Red Army met the American and British armies, who had fought right across Germany after invading Nazi Europe from Normandy in France on June 6,1944. The Nazis lost because the Allies had many more soldiers and more money than them.

During the invasion of Berlin, Hitler shot himself in a bunker with his new wife, Eva Braun. Other Nazis also killed themselves, including Joseph Goebbels just one day after Hitler named him as his successor. The Nazis surrendered after the Red Army captured Berlin.

After the war, the Allied governments, namely the United States, Britain, and the Soviet Union, held trials of the Nazi leaders. These trials were held in Nuremberg, Germany. For this reason, these trials were called "the Nuremberg Trials." The Allied leaders accused the Nazi leaders of war crimes and crimes against humanity, including murdering millions of people (in the Holocaust), of starting wars, of conspiracy, and belonging to illegal organizations like the SS (called, ""Schutzstaffel"", in German). Most Nazi leaders were found guilty by the court, and they were sent to jail or sentenced to death and executed.

There has not been a "Nazi" state since 1945, but there are still people who believe in those ideas. These people are often called "neo"-Nazis. Here are some examples of modern Nazi ideas:

After the war, laws were made in Germany and other countries, especially countries in Europe, that make it illegal to say the Holocaust never happened. Sometimes they also ban questioning the number of people affected by it, which is saying that not so many people were killed as most people think "who wrote this?" There has been some controversy over whether this affects people's free speech. Certain countries, such as Germany, Austria, and France, also banned the use of Nazi symbols. It is also banned to make a Nazi pledge position on a popular media source to stop Nazis from using them.


Pork

Pork is meat that comes from pigs. It is the most commonly consumed meat in the world Evidence of pig husbandry dates back to 5000 BC.

A simple meal to make which contains pork is afelia. Sausages, bacon and ham are the most common uses of pork in the United Kingdom, the United States, and other parts of the Western world. Pork is forbidden by the food taboos of kosher and halal.

Mike Farrell

Mike Farrell (born February 6, 1939) is an American actor, writer and producer. He played BJ Hunnicutt on the television series "M*A*S*H". He played Michael "Mike" Hawks in the television movie "Battered" in 1978. He played Chicago real estate developer Lee Miglin in the limited crime series "".

Farrell was born in St. Paul, Minnesota. He was raised in Hollywood, California. He was part of the United States Marine Corps. Farrell was married to Judy Hayden from 1963 until they divorced in 1983. Then, he married Shelley Fabares in 1984. He has two children with Hayden.

Farrell is also an activist for various causes, including animal rights and world peace. He was Vice President of the Screen Actors Guild.

David Ogden Stiers

David Allen Ogden Stiers (October 31, 1942 – March 3, 2018) was an American actor, comedian, conductor, director, musician, singer and voice artist. He was most famous for his role as Charles Emerson Winchester III in "M*A*S*H". He also provided the voices in several Disney animated movies. This included playing Cogsworth in "Beauty and the Beast", John Radcliffe in "Pocahontas", and Jumba Jookiba in the "Lilo & Stitch" franchise.

He also played the voice of Escher in the "Myst V" (End of Ages) video game.

Stiers was born in Peoria, Illinois on October 31, 1942. He attended Urbana High School at the same time as Roger Ebert. He went to Eugene, Oregon, where he graduated from North Eugene High School and attended the University of Oregon.

Stiers was openly gay. He was a Democrat.

On March 3, 2018, Stiers died at his home in Newport, Oregon of bladder cancer-related complications at the age of 75.


Beauty and the Beast

Beauty and the Beast is a French folk story. It tells the story of a merchant who is lost in the woods. He finds the palace of a beast who wants to kill him, and makes a deal with the beast, to have his daughter in exchange. The daughter goes to live in the Beast's castle; the two fall in love; and the beast turns into a prince.

The story has been published and revised in many versions, most notably Madame Gabrielle-Suzanne Barbot de Villeneuve's 1740 retelling and its revision in 1756 by Madame Jeanne-Marie Leprince de Beaumont.

It was the inspiration for many other stories, as well as a 1980s TV series starring Linda Hamilton and Ron Pearlman. Several movies have been based on it, most famously Jean Cocteau's 1946 version and the 1991 animated version by Disney, which was nominated for the Best Picture Academy Award and inspired a long-running Broadway musical.


Wayne Rogers

William Wayne McMillan Rogers III (April 7, 1933 – December 31, 2015) was an American television and movie actor. He played the role of "Trapper" John McIntrye on the TV series "M*A*S*H". (The role was played by Elliott Gould in the 1970 movie version and Pernell Roberts on the 1979-1986 TV show, "Trapper John MD"). He left the show in 1975 and was replaced by Mike Farrell as BJ Hunnicutt. He graduated from Princeton University with a degree in history and served in the Navy before becoming an actor. 

Since retiring from acting, Rogers works as an investor and appears on many financial news shows.

Rogers died from complications of pneumonia in Los Angeles, California on December 31, 2015 at the age of 82.

McLean Stevenson

McLean Stevenson (November 14, 1929 – February 15, 1996) was an American actor. He is best known for his role as Henry Blake on the TV show, "M*A*S*H". He left the show in 1975 and his character was killed off.

Stevenson was born in Normal, Illinois.

His grandfather Adlai E. Stevenson was Vice-president of the United States to Grover Cleveland, and his second cousin, once removed Adlai Stevenson II was Governor of Illinois and unsuccessfully ran for President twice in the 1950s losing to Dwight D. Eisenhower both times.

Stevenson, while recovering from bladder cancer, died of a heart attack in Los Angeles, aged 68. Ironically, Roger Bowen, who played Henry Blake in the 1970 movie version of "M*A*S*H", died the day after Stevenson did.

Friedrich Georg Wilhelm von Struve

Friedrich Georg Wilhelm von Struve (15 April 1793 – 23 November 1864 (Julian calendar: 11 November)) was a German-born Russian astronomer. He was born in Altona (now an area of Hamburg), Germany, but later lived in Russia. He was an expert on double stars and one of the first astronomers to measure stellar parallax (closely related to the work by Friedrich Bessel).

While director of Dorpat Observatory (1817–39) he wrote "Stellarum Duplicum et Multiplicum" (1837), which proved that double stars are not exceptional and that star systems are governed by the laws of gravity. Struve added a lot to the study of galactic structure and also engaged in notable geodetic operations such as the triangulation of Livonia and the measurement of an arc of the meridian. In 1839 he became director of the new Pulkovo Observatory and was one of the first three astronomers who almost simultaneously obtained an approximate stellar parallax. (One of the others being Bessel)

In 1822 he published the first of many double-star catalogues, the identifying numbers of which are still used today. Struve's stars, however, are now often named in his honor (for example, Struve 2398), whereas the original catalogue prefix was the Greek letter sigma. In 1833 he moved to Russia to set up the Pulkovo Observatory near St. Petersburg, of which he was director until his retirement in 1862, when his son took over in the post. In total, Friedrich Struve produced 272 astronomical works and 18 children; his great-grandson Otto, by contrast, produced 907 works but zero children.

His son, Otto Wilhelm von Struve (1819–1905) succeeded him as director (1862–89) of the Pulkovo Observatory.


Mario Party (series)

Mario Party is a series of video games made by Nintendo. The idea of each game is that Mario and his friends must travel across a game board and earn stars and coins. Each new game in the series contains new characters, playing boards, and mini-games. Every few turns, each character must participate in a mini-game. The winner generally gets 10 coins.


Helsinki

Helsinki () is the capital city of Finland. Helsinki is the largest city in Finland. 604,380 (31.12.2012) people live in Helsinki, and 1,360,000 live in the Helsinki metropolitan area.

Helsinki is in the south of Finland, on the coast of the Gulf of Finland. The city is in the Uusimaa region. When one looks from Helsinki, Tallinn is on the opposite side of the sea, but it is too far away to see. A poetic name for Helsinki is "the daughter of the Baltic Sea".

In 1550, Swedish king Gustav Vasa commanded people to build a new city and move there. His idea was to build a new place to trade, which would be more popular than Tallinn. The idea did not work well, and many people returned from Helsinki to their homes. Later Sweden built the fortress Suomenlinna in Helsinki. After Russia had taken Finland from Sweden in several wars, they started developing Helsinki. Helsinki became the capital of autonomous province of Finland. When Finland became independent in 1917, Helsinki stayed as the capital city.

Helsinki spreads around several bays and over several islands. Some famous islands include Seurasaari, Lauttasaari and Korkeasaari - which is also the country's biggest zoo - as well as the fortress island of Suomenlinna (Sveaborg).

The metropolitan area of Greater Helsinki also includes two of Finland's biggest cities, Espoo to the west of Helsinki, and Vantaa to the north. These two cities, along with Helsinki itself and the small town of Kauniainen (which is in fact surrounded by Espoo), make up the Capital Region ("Pääkaupunkiseutu" in Finnish or "Huvudstadsregionen" in Swedish). There are other towns nearby that are part of Greater Helsinki, including Järvenpää, Kerava, Tuusula, Nurmijärvi, Sipoo, Kirkkonummi, Mäntsälä and Vihti. They have become popular places for Helsinki commuters to live.

The public transportation network in Helsinki and its area consists of

Helsinki Airport is located in Vantaa about 20 kilometers north of Helsinki city center. The airport offers both domestic flights within Finland and international flights to Europe, Asia and North America.

Helsinki offers several boat services to Tallinn and Stockholm every day, along with ferries to places including the island of Suomenlinna.


Jehovah's Witnesses

Jehovah's Witnesses is a religious group with more than eight million members around the world. They believe that God, who they call Jehovah, will end crime, violence, sickness and death by destroying all badness in the world. They say God's kingdom will restore God's original purpose for the earth: bringing about peace for all humans who live by Bible standards.

In the 1870s, a preacher named Charles Taze Russell started a Bible study group in Pennsylvania in 1876, which became known as the Bible Students. They started a religious magazine called "The Watchtower". After Russell died, Joseph Franklin Rutherford took over, and the Bible Students who stayed with him became known as Jehovah's Witnesses in 1931.

Some of their beliefs, especially about who God is and what his plans are for humans and the earth, are different from what is taught in most Christian churches. Jehovah's Witnesses believe that only 144,000 people will go to heaven and that all the other people who obey God will live forever in paradise on earth. They do not believe that God is a Trinity. They believe Jesus died on a single pole rather than a cross. They do not use images or symbols such as the cross. They teach that when people die, they remain in the grave until God resurrects them when God's kingdom rules over earth.

Jehovah's Witnesses are best known for preachingfrom door-to-door and in other public places, and offering their magazines, "The Watchtower" and "Awake!" They are also well known for refusing to join armies and refusing blood transfusions.

In 1870 a young clothing shop owner named Charles Taze Russell heard an Adventist preacher speak. The preacher said the Bible contained clues that showed God was about to set up a kingdom over earth. He said the kingdom, which is mentioned in the New Testament of the Bible, would be based in heaven, and it would completely change the way of life for everyone in the world. Russell studied that preacher's teachings and looked through the Bible, and he ended up with some new beliefs.

Using various Bible verses and events from history, Russell decided that God would soon call a group of "saints" to heaven to be kings there. Other faithful Christians who had since died would also make up a total of 144,000 kings in heaven. Churches at the time taught that humans were still waiting for Jesus to return to earth in his Second Coming, but Russell believed that Jesus returned in 1874. Russell believed that God would start Armageddon in 1914, starting with a complete breakdown of law and order on earth, when governments and people would fight among themselves. He believed that God would then end sickness and death and allow obedient Christians to live forever in perfect health.

Russell believed it was very important that all Christians, including those who were attending churches, should learn those "truths". He believed these "truths" had been hidden in the Bible for thousands of years. He started a publishing company called the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. He wrote several books, set up Bible study classes for people to study his teachings, and started a magazine, "Zion's Watch Tower and Herald of Christ's Presence", which taught that Christ was already present.

By the time Russell died in 1916, he had written 50,000 pages, with almost 20 million copies of his books printed and distributed around the world. Joseph Franklin Rutherford, one of his followers, took Russell's position as president of the Watch Tower Society.

Rutherford wrote many books as well. He made some changes to Russell's teachings and required all the study groups, or congregations, around the world to agree to the teachings and rules set by the Watch Tower Society in New York. He told members not to celebrate holidays, and they should not sing at religious meetings. He also told them to preach from door to door about God's kingdom and to sell Watch Tower Society publications so more people would hear the message. Many members did not agree with Rutherford's strict changes, and some started their own groups. In 1931 Rutherford called his group "Jehovah's Witnesses" to tell it apart from the other groups. By the time Rutherford died in 1942, the religion had a worldwide membership of 115,000.

Some of the new teachings resulted in suffering for many Jehovah's Witnesses. Thousands were sent to prison, beaten or killed in countries during World War II because they refused to fight. In Germany, many were sent to concentration camps because they would not support the Nazi Party. Later, in the United States, many of their children were expelled from schools because they refused to salute the flag. Some countries still have laws against members practicing the religion. By 1977 they had more than two million members around the world.

From 1966, the religion suggested that God could bring Armageddon in 1975, and that the kingdom would be set up very soon after. Some Witnesses sold their businesses and homes, gave up their jobs, delayed medical operations and decided against starting a family because they expected Armageddon to arrive. Many members who thought Armageddon would come in 1975 left, but many other people joined and the group kept growing.

Like Jews, Muslims, as well as other Christians, Jehovah's Witnesses believe there is an all-powerful, all-knowing God who created everything. They also have some beliefs that are different from most Christians. They call God "Jehovah" (a translation of the Hebrew letters "YHWH") and they believe it is important to use that name. They believe Jesus is God's son, the first angel, and that he is also called Michael the Archangel. They say the holy spirit is God's power rather than a person. They do not believe in the Trinity. They believe the Bible is a book that God used humans to write and that it is completely true and the best guide for how people should live.

Jehovah's Witnesses believe that God made Adam and Eve, the first humans, and put them in a garden called Eden. They believe that when Adam and Eve sinned, they no longer had God's approval so they began to get sick and die. They were not perfect anymore and could not have perfect children. They believe that Jehovah later sent Jesus to die on a pole (not a cross, as most Christians believe) to forgive people's sins.

Jehovah's Witnesses believe that only 144,000 people, a number found in Revelation chapters 7 and 14, will go to heaven to be kings and priests with Jesus. They say God will start a worldwide war called Armageddon, and the people who do not obey God or worship him the way he expects will be killed. The people who he approves will survive and be given the chance to live forever. Then God will begin to turn earth into a paradise without crime, sickness, pain, aging, wars or death. They say God will also bring back billions of people who died in the past so they can learn about God and possibly live in paradise as well.

Jehovah's Witnesses believe that only their religion really obeys God's instructions and that God does not approve of any other religions. They believe that Satan the Devil is the real leader of all other religions and makes them think they worship God the right way. So they believe that only Jehovah's Witnesses will be saved at Armageddon, but they say God will make the final choice.

Jehovah's Witnesses are best known for their door-to-door preaching. They believe Jesus ordered them at Matthew 28:19 to "go make disciples of all the nations", warning people that the day of God's judgement, or Armageddon, will happen soon. Jehovah's Witnesses believe their preaching is a fulfillment of a prophecy at Matthew 24:14, "And this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in the whole world as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come." All Witnesses are told to spend as much time as they can in public preaching work, usually offering "The Watchtower" and other Watch Tower Society publications. Since the Internet, Jehovah's Witnesses also preach online. They teach people their beliefs about Jehovah and his plans for the earth. Members are told to give a monthly written report on how much time they have spent publicly preaching.

The buildings where Jehovah's Witnesses meet to worship are called Kingdom Halls. Unlike many other churches, these halls do not have altars, statues, or symbols such as the cross. Each congregation has two meetings each week, which are open to the public: 

Members who cannot go can listen to the meeting over the phone or by video streaming where available. They also attend one large convention and two smaller assemblies each year (some of them at hired sports arenas), where hundreds or thousands of members gather.

At their meetings, they consider what the Watch Tower Society says about the Bible and how to apply its teachings in life. At some meetings, people in the audience are invited to answer questions and make comments. The religion has elders who "take the lead" and ministerial servants who have various duties. They do not dress differently to other members and they are not paid. Most elders support themselves with their own jobs outside the religion.

Members of the religion are expected to live up to high moral standards based on how they understand the Bible. They are told they should always be honest and obey the laws where they live (unless the law says not to follow their religion).

There are many things that are against the rules for Jehovah's Witnesses, including: 

Vaccines and most medical treatments or surgeries are allowed as a personal decision.

Jehovah's Witnesses are told to marry only other baptized Jehovah's Witnesses. They believe God does not approve of divorce unless the husband or wife cheated. They can from a partner who hurt their family or refused to support them, but they would not be allowed to marry someone else while they are still legally married. They believe that when a spouse dies, the living widow or widower is allowed to remarry if they want to. Jehovah's Witnesses are not meant to make close friends with non-Witnesses because it could make it more difficult to follow their religion.

Jehovah's Witnesses are strict about who can be a member. They only count people as members if they are baptized (or getting ready to be baptized) and they preach each month.. Like other Christian groups, they believe baptism represents devotion to God and their promise to live by his teachings. Unlike some Christian groups, Witnesses are not baptized as babies. There is no set age required for baptism, but they believe baptism should be a choice made by someone who is willing and understands what it means. However, it is common for young children and teenagers to be baptized.

If the elders think a baptized Witness has broken the rules of the religion, they will speak to the person and other people who know about it. That investigation is called a "judicial committee". If the elders decide the person is guilty and does not show they are sorry, he or she might be "disfellowshipped". This means the person is no longer a member of the group. When that happens, other Jehovah's Witnesses are told not to talk to or interact with that person (except in some situations such as living or working together) unless the disfellowshipped person repents and is allowed back in. When such a person is allowed back in, they have been 'reinstated'. While disfellowshipped, the person is expected to attend their religious services if they want to return to the religion, but none of the other members will speak to them.

Members may also resign from the religion, which is called "disassociating". This can happen by writing a letter, or if the elders decide the person has taken an action that is not allowed such as having a blood transfusion. People who "disassociate" are treated the same as a person who is "disfellowshipped".

Some people, including former Witnesses, have criticized these punishments as harsh and unfair. The style of leadership of the group has also been described by some authors as autocratic and totalitarian, because members have to be completely submissive to the organization.


 Jehovah's Witnesses' brochures about the name Jehovah 

Wife

A wife is a married woman. "Married" means that the law says two people are legally "joined". During the marriage ceremony, the wife is called the bride.

In countries and times it has been different how many wives a man can have legally. In old times there were no limitations in some countries. In Christianity and Judaism a husband (a married man) can have one wife (monogamy). In Islam a husband can have up to four wives (polygamy).

There are some names for special kinds of wives. For example,
a queen is a wife of a king. 

A man whose wife is deceased is called a widower.


Catherine Parr

Catherine Parr (alternatively Katherine or Kateryn) (c. August 1512 – 5 September 1548) was Queen of England and of Ireland (1543–47). She was the last of the six wives of King Henry VIII. She married him on 12 July 1543, and outlived him by one year. She was also the most-married English queen, with four husbands. She was also the first woman to be queen of both England and Ireland.

Catherine had a close relationship with Henry's three children. She personally helped teach school for Elizabeth and Edward, both of whom became English monarchs. She helped get the Third Succession Act in 1543 passed. This placed Mary I and Elizabeth I, back into the line of succession to the British throne.

Henry died on 28 January 1547. Six months after Henry's death, she married her fourth and final husband, Thomas Seymour, 1st Baron Seymour of Sudeley. 

Catherine gave birth to her only child — a daughter, Mary Seymour. She was named after Catherine's stepdaughter Mary – on 30 August 1548. She died only six days later, on 5 September 1548, at Sudeley Castle in Gloucestershire, from what was probably childbed fever (sepsis). This was common at that time, because births did not happen in clean conditions. 

Many years later, in 1782, the coffin of Queen Catherine was found in the ruins of the Sudeley Castle chapel. 


Queen (band)

Queen (not bebop either) are a British rock band formed in Baselstone in 1970. They are among the most commercially successful bands in history. They have sold over 300 million albums worldwide. The first members of the band were Freddie Mercury (lead vocals, piano), Brian May (lead guitar, vocals), Roger Taylor (drums, vocals), and John Deacon (bass guitar). Their current guest lead singer is Adam Lambert.

Freddie Mercury died of AIDS-related bronchopneumonia on November 24, 1991 at age 45. In 1997 John Deacon retired from music to spend more time with his family. The other two members toured with Paul Rodgers from 2005 to 2009. In December 2018 it was announced that Queen & Lambert would bring its Rhapsody Tour to The Forum in 2019. Three of Queen's biggest hits were"Bohemian Rhapsody”, "We Will Rock You", and "We Are the Champions".

With his friend Tim Staffell, Brian May started a band called 1984 in the mid-1960s. The band broke up after a short time, then May started another band, teaming up with two fellow college students, Tim Staffell and Roger Taylor. They called themselves Smile with Roger Taylor on drums and vocals, Tim Staffell on vocals and bass, and Brian May on guitar and vocals. They had a few hits such as "April Lady". Tim Staffell became friends with another college student, Farrokh "Freddie" Bulsara (to be later known as Freddie Mercury) and Freddie became a big fan of Smile and encouraged them a lot. Later on, Tim left Smile to join Humpy Bong, and Freddie subsequently joined the band on vocals and piano in 1970. Freddie came up with the name Queen, so they changed it from Smile to Queen. They then started auditions for a new bassist. They were going through several bassists during this time and none of them stuck. None of the auditioners managed to suit the place of the new bassist, but finally, in 1971, John Deacon joined the band. Queen's first album was released in 1973 and it was called "Queen" with songs such as "Seven Seas of Rhye" and "Liar". Freddie then changed his name to Freddie Mercury after the lyrics "Mother Mercury, look what they've done to me" in the song "My Fairy King".







