Academy Awards:


BAFTA Awards:

Berlin International Film Festival:

Cannes Film Festival:

Directors Guild of America Awards:

Emmy Awards:

Golden Globe Awards:

Independent Spirit Awards:

Venice Film Festival:

Vietnam Veterans Memorial

The Vietnam Veterans Memorial, also called the Wall, honors the men and women who died in the Vietnam War. It is a black granite wall which has the names of every American killed in the war. It was designed by Maya Lin in 1981 and is in Washington, DC.

Maya Lin

Maya Ying Lin (born October 10, 1959) is a Chinese-American architect and artist. She is most famous for her Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington, DC and the Civil Rights Monument in Montgomery, Alabama. In 2016, Lin was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Barack Obama.

Manslaughter

Manslaughter is the crime of killing a person. When a person is killed, lawyers look at the reasons and motives why this person was killed. If the death of a person is not on purpose, but the killer did something that resulted in the death of a person, this is usually called manslaughter. It is less serious than if a person were killed on purpose (sometimes with planning involved), which is called murder. Killing someone in self-defence may be manslaughter. Depending on the circumstances, killing in self-defence may be no crime at all. Negligent homicide is an even lesser crime.

Manslaughter is a relatively new legal concept. It was first mentioned in an English statute in 1547, but was interpreted very loosely and not earnestly enforced, instead usually charging with murder. Very few countries had manslaughter on their books until the latter half of the 20th century. No jurisdiction in the United States had manslaughter on its books until the 20th century. England and the United States were the first two countries to introduce manslaughter into their laws.


Bangkok

Bangkok (Thai: กรุงเทพมหานคร) is the capital city of Thailand. In 2010, the city had a population of 9,100,000 people. Since Bangkok has more than 55 times as many people as the second largest city, Nonthaburi, it is a primate city.

Bangkok has a tropical savanna climate ("Aw" in the Koeppen climate classification).

Bangkok is the world's most popular tourist destination; 23 million visitors stay overnight there per year. The main airport is Suvarnabhumi, 30 kilometers east of Bangkok.

Krung Thep Maha Nakhon is [an] official name; "However, the name Bangkok is still recognised", media says. Krung Thep Maha Nakhon (Bangkok) is [another form of] the official name.

In Thailand, the city is called "Krung Thep" ('city of angels'); The name is short form of a ceremonial name from the rule of one king between 1851 and 1868; The full ceremonial name is "Krung Thep Mahanakhon Amon Rattanakosin Mahinthara Yuthaya Mahadilok Phop Noppharat Ratchathani Burirom Udomratchaniwet Mahasathan Amon Piman Awatan Sathit Sakkathattiya Witsanukam Prasit". A nickname for Bangkok, is "The Big Mango".



