Vladimir Putin


Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin (, ) is the current President of Russia. Putin was born in Leningrad, now Saint Petersburg, on the 7 of October in 1952. He was the Prime Minister of Russia from 1999 to 2000, then President of Russia from March 2000 to May 2008, and Prime Minister again from 2008 to 2012. He became president again in 2012. He originally trained as a lawyer.

Putin was born on 7 October 1952, in Leningrad, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union (now Saint Petersburg, Russia) during the rule of Joseph Stalin. His parents were Vladimir Spiridonovich Putin (1911–1999) and Maria Ivanovna Putina ("née" Shelomova; 1911–1998). Spiridon Putin, Vladimir Putin's grandfather, was a cook to Vladimir Lenin and Joseph Stalin.

From 1985 to 1990, Putin worked for the KGB, the Soviet Union's secret spy service. Putin worked in Dresden, which was part of the former East Germany. After East Germany collapsed in 1989, Putin was told to come back to the Soviet Union. He chose to go to Leningrad, which is where he went to university. In June 1990, he started working in the International Affairs section of Leningrad State University. In June 1991, he was appointed head of the International Committee of the Saint Petersburg Mayor's office. His job was to promote international relations and foreign investments.

Putin gave up his position in the KGB on August 20, 1991, during the putsch against Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev. In 1994, he became First Deputy Chairman of the city of Saint Petersburg. In August 1996, he came to Moscow, and served in a variety of important positions in Boris Yeltsin's government. He was head of the FSB (a secret spy service in modern capitalist Russia) from July 1998 to August 1999, and he was Secretary of the Security Council from March to August 1999.

Putin became President of Russia in May 2000.

Putin is the leader of the ruling United Russia party. This party has been winning the Russian elections ever since the fall of the Soviet Union.

Critics of Putin say that he has taken away people's freedoms, and that he has failed to make the country more developed. Russia makes lots of money from selling oil and gas to other countries, but because of corruption, this money is not used for improving living conditions.

Recently, the Russian opposition has held anti-government rallies, campaigned against Putin on the Internet, and published independent reports for the general public. Because of censorship in the mass media, it's very difficult to get different information out to the public.

Putin was against invading Libya in 2011. He is also against invading Syria and Iran.

On March 24, 2014, Putin and Russia were suspended from the G8. This was because the United States thought that the Ukraine crisis was Putin's fault.

According to the Constitution of Russia, no-one can be president three times in a row. Because of this, Putin didn't put himself forward for the March 2008 election. However, you're allowed to be president as many times as you want, as long as it's not for more than two times in a row. In March 2012, Putin put himself forward for the elections, and won 64% of the vote. This means that he was the president of Russia until 2018.

On December 6, 2017 Russia President Vladimir Putin announced he would run for a fourth term in the upcoming election, 2018 Russian Presidential Election.

In July 2020, Russian voters backed a referendum that would allow Putin to serve as president until 2036.

On 24 February 2022, Putin announced that his military was going to invade Ukraine. This happened after a year of tension and military buildup between the two countries. The invasion led to many calling Putin a war criminal and wanting him to be prosecuted as a war criminal.He has an arrest warrant for war crimes in Ukraine since 17 March 2023. 

He is a member of the Russian Orthodox Church, and is divorced with two daughters.


Henry VII of England

Henry VII or Henry Tudor (15 January 1487–21 April 1509) was King of England from 1485 to 1509. He founded the Tudor dynasty by winning the battle of Bosworth Field in 1485. His son became king Henry VIII of England.

Henry VII was born in 1457 to Edmund Tudor and Margaret Beaufort. His father died two months before he was born, leaving his 13-year-old mother as his only parent. After Henry's birth, he spent a lot of time with his uncle Jasper Tudor. Jasper took Henry to France, where he spent most of his youth. Henry had a claim to the throne of England, but it was not a very good one, and he had to wait a long time for a chance to take the throne.

In 1483, a new king came to the throne in England, called Richard III. King Richard was not popular with everyone. Some thought he had stolen the throne from his young nephews and had killed them. This gave Henry the chance he had been waiting for. With help from the French, he raised an army. They landed at Dale in Pembrokeshire, close to where Henry had been born, so he was able to gather more supporters on the way.

The Wars of the Roses (1455–1485) had been going on for years. They were fought over the throne of England between supporters of the House of Lancaster and supporters of the House of York. Both houses were branches of the Plantagenet royal house, tracing their descent from King Edward III. 

King Henry VI and his family the House of Lancaster fought against their enemies for many years. The wars finally came to an end when King Henry VII of England came to the throne in 1485.

On 22 August 1485, Henry's army defeated Richard III's army at the Battle of Bosworth Field. When Richard III died in this battle, Henry VII became king. Other people also had a claim on the throne, and Henry did his best to stop them from taking it from him, either by executing them, putting them in prison, or trying to make friends of them, as he did with the Earl of Lincoln. Another step he took was to marry Elizabeth of York, the niece of King Richard III, who would herself have been the heir to the throne if she had not been a girl.

There were also people who pretended to be long-lost members of the royal family, so that they could try to take the throne. One of these was a little boy called Lambert Simnel, who looked very like Edward, Earl of Warwick. The real Earl of Warwick was Henry's prisoner, but this did not stop other people from believing that Lambert was him. The Earl of Lincoln rebelled against King Henry and raised an army to make Lambert king, thinking that he himself could rule the country. There was a battle, and the Earl of Lincoln was killed. Lambert Simnel was captured, but, because he was only a child, Henry spared his life and he became a royal servant.

Henry married Elizabeth of York, and by this action put an end to the Wars of the Roses. They had six children, but only four survived infancy:


Henry VII increased taxes so future kings would have enough money. People disliked that.

Henry VII died of tuberculosis in 1509 and was buried in Westminster Abbey. He was succeeded by his son, Henry VIII on 21 April 1509.

Dover, Kent

Dover is a town on the coast in Kent, in the United Kingdom. It was built by the Romans. There is a castle in Dover, called Dover Castle. It is the largest castle in England. The population is about 39,078. Throughout history, it has been an important port of Britain because it is the closest port to mainland Europe. The sea between Dover and the French port of Calais is called the Strait of Dover. It is the narrowest part of the English Channel at only wide.

The ferry port in Dover has ferries to Calais, France and Ostende, Belgium. Almost 45,000 people and 15,000 vehicles pass through the port every day. On of the largest tourist attractions around Dover are the White Cliffs of Dover.

Dover District Council is responsible for checking food for diseases when it comes through the port. 

The Romans first tried to invade Dover in 55BC, under Julius Caesar. They were forced back by the Celts, who fiercely defended the coastline. It was not until 43 AD, under the rule of Emperor Claudius, that Roman forces landed on British soil at Richborough and took control of the land as far as the northern border. Dover, then called DVBRIS, became the Romans' most important naval town.


Tonbridge

Tonbridge is a town in Kent in England. The River Medway runs through the town. A castle stands on the northern river bank in the middle of Tonbridge.

Tonbridge is linked by railways to London and Dover.

There are many secondary schools in the area. such as Tonbridge Grammar School

Inverness

Inverness is a city in the northern part of Scotland. It is often called the capital of the Highlands. It is on the A9 road. Inverness Airport is an important way to get to the Scottish Highlands.


Boycott

A boycott is a protest where the protesters do not buy a product or give money to a company. Instead of buying a certain product, they might also buy another, very similar product from a different company.

The word was made during the "Irish Land War"'. It comes from the name of Captain Charles Boycott. Boycott was in charge of looking after the land of a landlord in County Mayo, Ireland. In 1880, the tenants (those who rented) wanted their rent lowered. Boycott refused, and threw them out of the land they had rented. The Irish Land League then proposed that instead of becoming violent, everyone in the community should stop doing business with Captain Boycott. The captain was soon isolated. No one helped him with the harvest, no one worked in his stables or his house. Local businessmen no longer traded with him, the postman no longer delivered his post. 

To get his harvest done, he had to hire 50 people from other counties, the counties Cavan and Monaghan. They were escorted to and from their work by 1000 policemen. Of course, this cost far more than what the harvest was worth. 


Artificial

When something is artificial, or man-made, it has been made by humans, not nature. For example, an artificial satellite is one made by humans, while a natural satellite is a satellite that was not made by humans. Many artificial things imitate or copy things found in nature. The imitation may use the same basic materials as those in the natural object; or it may use quite different materials, as in Artificial leather. These are concepts in defining reality. There are different ideas about what can be considered artificial and what is natural.

The word "artificial" comes from the Latin words "art" (meaning "skill") and "fex" ("to make").

Artificial does not necessarily mean "synthetic" (that is, created by synthesis). An artificial sweetener imitates sweetness using a chemical formula that is not found in nature; it is therefore both artificial and synthetic.

Some disasters are natural, but some are man-made, like the Dust Bowl disaster in the United States.


King Arthur

King Arthur was a mythical king in the mythology of Great Britain. He lived in the medieval times, in his famous castle, Camelot. He possessed a sword known as Excalibur, given to him by the Lady of the Lake.

King Arthur is a fabled ruler of Sub-Roman Britain who defended his kingdom from the Anglo-Saxons. He is a popular fictional character in modern literature. He won several battles, and had many homes. However, his favorite home was in Camelot. In one of the most famous tales of King Arthur, he pulls a sword out of a stone, making him King of the Britons.

The first narrative account of Arthur's life is found in Geoffrey of Monmouth's Latin work "Historia Regum Britanniae" ("History of the Kings of Britain"), completed .

Many castles claim to be Arthur's Camelot, but the most likely one is Tintagel Castle, Cornwall (though there is no evidence for this). In Camelot sat the famous Round Table, where Arthur, his queen Guinevere, Merlin, Morgan le Fay, Sir Lancelot, Sir Gawain, Percival and many other valiant knights sat. Arthur and his knights went on many quests including The Quest For The Holy Grail, The Green Knight, The Black Knight and more.

After King Arthur's many adventures, his son Mordred seized his kingdom and queen, forcing Arthur to fight for what was truly his. They fought for a long time. Mordred hit King Arthur in many places, but in the end Arthur killed Mordred. After this victory, King Arthur was weak and died of blood loss from battle wounds. As his knights rode back to Camelot, they threw Excalibur into the lake so that it could return to where it came from. One legend says Arthur never died, and will return when the British need him. 

Many books have been written about King Arthur. Most of them involve Merlin, the Knights of the Round Table, and Morgan le Fay.

Geoffrey of Monmouth wrote the first book about Arthur in the 12th century. In the 15th century, Sir Thomas Malory wrote one of the best-known books about Arthur, called "Le Morte d’Arthur" ("The Death of Arthur"). Later, in the 19th century, Alfred, Lord Tennyson visited Tintagel, the mythical Camelot, twice. He wrote a series of poems about Arthur. 

Some stories about Arthur say he tried to find the Holy Grail, the cup that Jesus drank from at the Last Supper. 

There are also many movies about Arthur. These include Disney's "The Sword in the Stone; Monty Python and the Holy Grail; King Arthur (2004); King Arthur, The Kid Who Would Be King (2019); the Legend of the Sword (2017)"; and the musical "Camelot".

Johnny Appleseed

John "Johnny Appleseed" Chapman (September 26, 1774 - March 11, 1847) is an American folk hero. He was a Christian missionary and pioneer. His nickname came from the fact that he planted apple trees throughout the American Midwest. Many people consider him an early conservationist or "tree-hugger". He wandered the country, usually barefoot, and with a cooking pot on his head for most of his adult life, planting apple trees, teaching the Bible, telling stories, and befriending Native Americans, wild animals, and other settlers. Many stories have been told about him and his journeys, as well as art, books, and later movies, which makes him a folk hero. He was born in Leominster, Massachusetts and is buried in Johnny Appleseed Park in Fort Wayne, Indiana.

John Chapman is said to have been in the Wilkes-Barre region some time in the 1790s, practicing his profession as a nurseryman, but just when he embraced the Swedenborgian faith and began his missionary activities we cannot be sure, though it is probable that it was before he ever reached western Pennsylvania. There are some early accounts of John speaking of his own activities as "a Bible missionary" on the Potomac when he was a young man, and Johnny was seen for two or three consecutive years along the banks of the Potomac in eastern Virginia, picking the seeds from the pomace of the cider mills in the late 1790s.The apple seeds that Johnny obtained were free, as the cider mills wanted there to be more apple trees planted to improve their business.

At the time of his death, Johnny Appleseed left an estate of more than 1,200 acres of nurseries, and he left these to his sister. He additionally had four plots located in Allen County, Indiana, which was a nursery that included 15,000 trees. 

Records show that John Chapman appeared on Licking Creek, in what is now Licking County, Ohio, in 1800, when he was twenty-six years old. He had probably come up the Muskingum River to plant near the Refugee Tract, which would soon fill up with settlers, when Congress actually got around to granting the lands. In April, 1798, the Continental Congress had ratified resolutions to donate public lands for the benefit of those who had left Canada and Nova Scotia to fight against the British in the Revolutionary War. The lands were actually set apart in 1801 and patents issued in 1802. Grants of land ranging from 160 acres to 2,240 acres were awarded according to the exertions of the patentee in the War. Johnny, with true Yankee enterprise, went ahead and planted his nurseries before the refugees arrived. Licking County, then a part of Fairfield, contained only three white families. By the time families were ready to settle the area, Johnny's tracts of land were ready for market.


Compact disc

A compact disc, also called a CD is a storage device in the form of small plastic discs which store and retrieve computer data or music using light. Compact Discs replaced floppy disks because they were faster and could hold more information. The CDs made floppy disks become obsolete. CDs were invented by both Philips and Sony at the same time, but not together. Sony and Philips did work together to create a standard format and the technology to read CDs in 1982. CDs can hold up to 700 MB worth of data, which is about 80 minutes of music. Mini CDs were also made for special small programs like drivers. CDs that have computer information on them are called CD-ROMs, or Compact Disc - Read Only Memory. The diameter of a normal CD is 120 mm. The middle hole in a CD is about 1.5 cm).


Maidstone

Maidstone is a town in Kent, in England. It stands on the River Medway. Maidstone is the county town of Kent, meaning the local government is based there. Its name means "stone of the maidens". The town of Maidstone is within the borough of Maidstone, which also includes several surrounding villages. In 2001, 75,070 people lived in the town of Maidstone, and there were 138,959 in the whole of the Borough.

During the Civil War a battle took place in 1648, which was won by Oliver Cromwell's soldiers. A year later, Andrew Broughton, who was then Mayor of Maidstone (and also Clerk to the High Court of Justice) gave the death sentence to Charles I. Today there is a plaque in Maidstone Town Centre describing Andrew as 'Mayor and Regicide' (a killer of kings). 

Maidstone used to be an industrial area, with paper making and brewing being two of the most important industries, although both have mainly died out in recent years. Until 1998, Sharps Toffee factory was where Bassets liquorice allsorts and other sweets were made. Most of the heavy industry has now been replaced by light and service industries.
Today, Maidstone is one of the top five shopping centres in the south east of England, with more than one million square feet of retail space. Most of this is in two shopping areas, "Fremlin Walk", which was built on the site of one of the old breweries, is , and "The Mall Maidstone" provides another . Both include multi-story car parks.

Redhill

Redhill can mean several things:



