Drunkenness


Drunkenness means being intoxicated by alcohol. This means a person's brain and body are not working normally, because of the alcohol they have had. A person who is intoxicated is usually called "drunk". 

The effects of being drunk depend on how much alcohol a person has had to drink.

Alcohol causes the mind and body to not work normally.

In low amounts, alcohol often causes good feelings, reddened skin, and feeling relaxed. People who drink small amounts of alcohol may feel less nervous about being around others. Even in small amounts, alcohol slows down the brain. Alcohol interferes with normal brain communication and changes a person’s behavior and mood. The ability to think clearly is often inhibited. Consuming larger amounts of alcohol can drastically affect motor functions via its effects on the brain. Commonly seen effects on the brain and the rest of the central nervous system (CNS) include slurred speech and issues with coordination. It starts to affect a person's judgment - their ability to make good decisions. It also makes a person react more slowly and have slower reflexes. This is why it is not safe to drive even after drinking just a little.

In medium amounts, alcohol will cause trouble speaking clearly and moving the body normally. A person may have trouble staying balanced and walking normally. They may get confused or very tired. They will not be able to make good decisions. They may also start vomiting.

When a person drinks a dangerous amount of alcohol, they can get alcohol poisoning.

Alcohol poisoning is a medical emergency. "Alcohol poisoning" means that a person has drunk enough alcohol to cause a coma, dangerously slow breathing, or even death. A person with alcohol poisoning needs emergency medical treatment at a hospital to make sure they do not die from alcohol poisoning.

Here are some of the signs and symptoms of alcohol poisoning:

When a person has alcohol poisoning, 9-1-1 or another local emergency telephone number should be called right away. First aid can help the person until an ambulance gets there.
A first aider SHOULD:

A first aider should NOT:

Paramedics and hospitals can treat alcohol poisoning by:

There are many myths (untrue beliefs) about drunkenness. Here are some examples of myths about drunkenness:


Canada Dry

Canada Dry is a brand name belonging to a company that produces beverages. Canada Dry makes ginger ale, club soda, and tonic water. Ginger ale is flavored with ginger root. Club soda is a clear drink sometimes used to remove stains from clothing. Tonic water is often used to make an alcoholic beverage known as "gin and tonic".

Ginger ale

Ginger ale is a soft drink flavored with the root of a plant known as ginger. It has a sweet yet spicy flavor. Even though it has the name "ale", which can be another word for beer, it is not beer. It is enjoyed by all ages. Canada Dry is a well known maker of ginger ale. Most ginger ales come in a green can.

Ginger beer is a non-alcoholic soft drink flavored with ginger root. Ginger beer is spicier than ginger ale and popular in some Caribbean countries, such as Trinidad.

Shaving

Shaving is removing hair from the face or other body part with a razor. 

"Shaving" often refers to men who cut their facial hair with a razor or clipper. Sometimes they just trim their facial hair while other men completely shave it. Some people do not shave the chin, this is called a goatee beard. Other men do not shave the upper lip, this is called a mustache.

In addition to this, many men choose to shave their heads and be bald. In many armies, male soldiers are required (have to) shave their heads.

Hygiene

Hygiene is the act of being clean. Washing the body to remove dirt and germs, brushing the teeth to keep them clean, shaving, using the toilet properly, and dressing correctly are some examples. Proper hygiene is often taught to children at a young age, and it becomes a habit. People who do not have good hygiene might smell bad, lose teeth, or become ill (sick).
First proven use of the word in English was in 1677s. The word hygiene comes from the French word hygiène, which is the western version of Greek word ὑγιεινή (τέχνη) - hugieinē technē, meaning "(art) of health", from ὑγιεινός (hugieinos), "good for the health, healthy", in turn from ὑγιής (hugiēs), "healthful, sound, salutary, wholesome". In ancient Greek religion, Hygeia (Ὑγίεια) was the daughter of Asclepius and represented health.


Spork

A spork is a combination of a spoon and a fork to create a special tool used to eat. Most sporks are made from plastic. Many fast food chains use the spork, including Taco Bell, Kentucky Fried Chicken, Taco John's, and Taco Bueno. Many people dislike the spork because it cannot poke food as well as a fork nor hold liquids as well as a spoon.


Vauxhall Astra

Vauxhall Astra is a car produced by Vauxhall since 1980. It was first just branded as a Vauxhall, since 1991 it has also been sold as a Opel, a Holden and a Chevrolet. From 2007 to 2009 it was sold as a Saturn.

Ford Ka

The Ford Ka is a car made by the Ford Motor Company in Spain, Poland and Brazil. It has three doors and was first made in 1996. The Ka is very popular in Europe, about 1.5 million cars have been sold. A new model has been released in Brazil in 2008, in Europe a new model has been introduced in 2009.

4 cylinders in line; SOHC; 8 valves; electronic multipoint fuel injection 

48 kW (65 HP) at 6.000 rpm
87 Nm at 3.250 rpm

44 kW (60 HP) at 5500 rpm 
99 Nm at 2500 rpm 

51 kW (70 HP) at 5500 rpm 
106 Nm at 3000 rpm 

70 kW (95 HP) at 5500 rpm
135 Nm at 4250 rpm 

The second generation of the Ka was released in the beginning of 2009. The car is build in cooperation with Fiat, the technic is the same as used in the Fiat 500.

For the first time, a Diesel engine is available for the Ford Ka.

4 cylinders in line; SOHC; 8 valves

51 kW (69 HP)
102 Nm at 3.000 rpm

55 kW (75 HP)
145 Nm at 1500 rpm 

Tower Bridge

Tower Bridge is a drawbridge in London. It crosses the River Thames near the Tower of London. It allows ships through the bridge deck when is raised at an angle in the centre.

The north side of the bridge is Tower Hill, and the south side of the bridge comes down into Bermondsey, an area in Southwark. Tower Bridge is far more visible than London Bridge, which people often mistake it for. Many tourists go to London to see the Tower Bridge. It has its own exhibition centre in the horizontal walkway. This gives one of the best vantage points in London.

The "bascules" are the surfaces raised to allow tall ships to pass through: this happens about 900 times per year. The bridge's decks (bascules) can be raised to 83 from the horizontal.

The City of London Corporation held a competition for the design in 1876. Over 50 designs were entered, and in 1884 Horace Jones and John Wolfe Barry's design was chosen.

Workers began to build the Tower Bridge in April 1886 and the bridge was opened on 30 June 1894.

In June 2012, the bridge was highlighted on the route of Queen Elizabeth II's Diamond Jubilee Pageant on the Thames.

The bridge is in length with two towers, each high, built on piers. The central span of between the towers is split into two equal bascules or leaves, which can be raised to an angle of 83 to allow river traffic to pass. The bascules, weighing over 1,100 tons each, are counterbalanced to minimize the force required and allow raising in five minutes. The bascules are raised by huge hydraulic pumps which were first powered by steam engines. In 1976 these were replaced by oil and electricity. The bridge is made from more than 11,000 tons of steel, and covered with Cornish granite and Portland stone.

The two side-spans are suspension bridges, each long, with the suspension rods anchored both at the abutments and through rods contained within the bridge's upper walkways. The pedestrian walkways are above the river at high tide. These walkways allow people to still cross the river, even when the bridge is raised. They were closed in 1910 because not enough people used them, but were reopened in 1982.



