Black comedy


Black comedy (also known as dark comedy or dark humor) is getting humor (something funny or comical) from something serious. It is known for its use of very sensitive subjects, such as war, tragedy, disease, death and suffering of the innocent. Black comedy is also a form of satire that uses irony and mocking. It may cause a wide variety of emotional reactions.

The term "black humor" (from the French "humour noir") was coined by the surrealist André Breton in 1935.

Some famous examples of black comedy include South Park, Waiting for Godot, Happy Tree Friends, Charles Addams' cartoons, Catch-22, Dr. Strangelove, Harold and Maude, and plays by Joe Orton, the novel film and early TV episodes of M*A*S*H, Itchy and Scratchy from The Simpsons, cartoons by John Callahan, Lasagna Cat, It's Such a Beautiful Day, SuperMarioLogan, SMG4, Moral Orel, Don't Hug Me I'm Scared, etc.

Elliott Gould

Elliot Gould (born as Elliott Goldstein on August 29, 1938) is an American actor. He was born in Brooklyn, New York City. He is mostly known for his roles in many films including "M*A*S*H" (1970), "Bob & Carol & Ted & Alice" (1970), and "Ocean's Eleven" (2001). He has also made guest appearances on many television such as Jack Geller in "Friends".

Gould's parents were Jewish; Gould says he has a very deep Jewish identity. He married singer and actress Barbra Streisand in 1963. The couple separated in 1969 and divorced in 1971. Their son is actor Jason Gould (born 1966).

Equation

A mathematical equation is an expression containing two mathematical objects connected by an equals sign (=) . The equals sign says that both sides are exactly equal, or of the same value. An equation can be as simple as formula_1, or as complex as formula_2 or harder.

There are two kinds of mathematical equations:

The second kind is often used to solve problems in which finding the value of some variables is involved. For example, if

The second kind of equation is used in algebra. For example, to solve the equation formula_5 for formula_8, one would follow an algebraic rule to find that formula_9.

Equations can be classified by the types of operations and quantities involved. For example:

1961

1961 (MCMLXI) was . Its rendering using the Hindu-Arabic numeral system creates a numeral which looks the same when put upside down. The next such year will be 6009.










