Dave Grohl


David Eric "Dave" Grohl (born January 14, 1969) is an American rock musician and singer. He is best known as the lead singer, occasionally drummer, and guitarist of rock band Foo Fighters and the drummer of the grunge band Nirvana from 1990 to 1994. He has also been part of thirty different bands in his life, including one from the 1980s called Scream. Other bands he has played in include Nine Inch Nails and Tenacious D.

Dave Grohl lived most of his early life in Springfield, Virginia. He played in many local punk bands, on guitar. By 15 years old he was a drummer in the hardcore punk band, Scream. Scream toured all over the United States and Europe but broke up in 1989. After they broke up he tried out to be a drummer in a small band called Nirvana.

Grohl joined Nirvana in 1990, along with Krist Novoselic and Kurt Cobain. They went on to be one of the most successful bands of the decade, selling over 50 million albums worldwide. Grohl joined shortly before the release of "Nevermind". "Nevermind" proved to be a classic album, one that is still a big influence on the alternative metal and alternative rock scene. The band only recorded one more studio album though, In Utero in 1993. On April 8, 1994, Kurt Cobain's body was found at his home in Seattle. He had shot himself in the head with a shotgun. This event ended Nirvana and Grohl started his own band Foo Fighters in 1995.

The original Foo Fighters album was recorded entirely by Grohl himself. He recorded the parts for each instrument one at a time and then combined them. Foo Fighters are now a multi Grammy Award winning rock band and sell out huge arenas when they are on tour.

1740

1740 was a leap year.


Embryo

An embryo is the earliest stage in the development of a fertilised egg (the zygote). It is the term used for any animal or plant, from the first cell division until birth, or hatching, or germination in plants.

In humans, it is called an embryo until about eight weeks after fertilization, and from then until birth it is called a foetus (US: fetus).

The development of the embryo is called embryogenesis, and the study of embryos is called embryology. The development of an embryo passes through various stages: the blastula, a hollow ball of cells; the gastrula, migration of cells; morphogenesis; tissue differentiation, and so on.

In organisms that reproduce sexually, once a sperm fertilizes an egg cell, the result is a cell called the zygote, which has DNA from each of the two parents. In plants, animals, and some protists, the zygote divides by mitosis to produce an embryo.


WordPad

WordPad is a word processor application. It is made by Microsoft. WordPad is a basic word processor. It has simple formatting functions. The software comes free with Microsoft Windows operating systems. WordPad is similar to Notepad but lets the user format text, something users cannot do in Notepad. However, WordPad is very basic compared to normal word processors like Microsoft Word or OpenOffice Writer. Wordpad saves documents in Rich Text Format, unlike Notepad's use of simple text files, allowing users to change the alignment and color of the font, and add things like bullets and font effects.

Microsoft Paint

Microsoft Paint, also called MS Paint or simply Paint is a computer program made by Microsoft. It allows people to create picture files as well as edit picture files saved on their computer. Microsoft Paint is also a program for adding texts to images saved on a computer. There are various tools to help people edit photos, including:

The program has a color palette displayed on the bottom left of the screen, as well as an "Edit Colors..." menu, allowing users to create all the shades they need.

Using the selection tools (the 2 tools at the top if the tools bar), users can select all or part of an image and then cut, copy, delete and paste it.

Many digital artists or editors prefer programs like Photoshop, but many on a tighter budget or with less time on their hands use Paint. Because of this, there are many Internet tutorials to help enhance the creative skill of every Microsoft Painter.

My Computer

My Computer is seen on the Microsoft Windows computers. My Computer allows the user to access the local drives, such as the local disk, also known as the C: Drive. The user can also access external drives. Examples of an external drive are a floppy disk drive (A: Drive) and the CD Drive (D:). My computer also lets the user access My Documents and other files.
Whenever any external drive is attached to the computer, the user can directly access that drive from My Computer menu. "My Computer" gives us an overview about different types of drives present in the computer. The My Computer folder is a gateway to all the data stored on the computer, attached devices, and the network -- as well as a shortcut to most of your system information.

Trilogy

A trilogy is a series with three parts. For example, The Godfather series of movies is a trilogy because there are three movies in the series: "The Godfather", "The Godfather Part II", and "The Godfather Part III".

The trilogy was originally a tradition of Ancient Greek theatre, where three plays and one satyr play would be played.

Series

A series is a group of similar things that are all related to the same topic.

In mathematics, a series is the adding of a sequence, a list of (usually never-ending) mathematical objects (such as numbers). It is sometimes written as formula_1, which is another way of writing formula_2.

For example, the series formula_3 corresponds to the following sum:

Here, the dots mean that the adding does not have a last term, but goes on to infinity. 

If the result of the addition gets closer and closer to a certain limit value, then this is the sum of the series. For example, the first few terms of the above series are: 

From these, we can see that this series will have 2 as its sum. 

However, not all series have a sum. For example. a series can go to positive or negative infinity, or just go up and down without settling on any particular value. In which case, the series is said to diverge. The harmonic series is an example of a series which diverges.


Synesthesia

Synesthesia, or synaesthesia, is a condition where the brain mixes up the senses. People who have synesthesia are called synesthetes.

Synesthesia is usually inherited (called congenital synesthesia), but exactly how people inherit it is unknown.

Synesthesia is sometimes reported by people using psychedelic drugs, after a stroke, or during an epileptic seizure. It is also reported to be a result of blindness or deafness. Synesthesia that comes from events unrelated to genes is called adventitious synesthesia. This synesthesia results from some drugs or a stroke but not blindness or deafness. It involves sound being linked to vision or touch being linked to hearing.

Synesthesia was investigated a lot in the 19th and early 20th centuries, but in the middle of the 20th century, it was less studied. Only recently has it been studied again in much detail.

Some musicians and composers have a form of synesthesia that allows them to "see" music as colors or shapes. This is called chromethesia. Mozart is said to have had this form of synesthesia. He said that the key of D major had a warm "orangey" sound to it, while B-flat minor was blackish. A major was a rainbow of colors to him. This may explain why he wrote some of his music using different colors for different music notes, and why much of his music is in major keys.

Another composer who had color-hearing was the Russian composer Alexander Scriabin. In 1907, he talked with another famous composer, Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov, who had synesthesia, and they both found that some musical notes made them think of certain colors. Scriabin worked with a man named Alexander Mozer who made a color organ.

The same type of synesthesia may have different effects (pronounced and less pronounced) on different people.

Synesthetes often say that they did not know their experiences were unusual until they found out that other people did not have them. Others report feeling as if they had been keeping a secret their entire lives. Most synesthetes consider their experiences a gift—a "hidden" sense. Most synesthetes find out in their childhood that they have synethesia. Some learn to apply it in daily life and work. For example, they might use their gift to memorize names and telephone numbers or do mental arithmetic. Many people with synesthesia use their experiences to help them be more creative, for example, in making drawings and music.

More than 60 types of synesthesia have been reported, but only a small number have been studied by scientists.
Some common types of synthesia include:

Moose

A moose ("Alces alces"; called elk in Europe) is a large deer. Some authorities put the American moose in a different species, "Alces americanus".

A male moose is called a "bull", a female moose is called a "cow", and a young moose is called a "calf". A group of moose is called a "herd". The plural form of moose is "moose”.

Moose live in northern Europe, Asia, and in North America. Moose usually live in areas with lakes, marshes and swamps. They also live in mountain ranges.

Moose live in North America and also range from northern Europe to Siberia. In Europe they live in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Poland and the Baltic countries (Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania). In North America they live in Canada, Alaska and northern parts of the United States. In 2008 they were re-introduced to Scottish Highlands from Scandinavia.

There are about 115,000 moose in Finland, and about the same number in Norway. Alaska has about 200,000. Canada and Russia each have between 500,000 and one million. There are also some in the continental United States. The animal is widely distributed.

Moose are active during the day. They live alone, but in winter they sometimes form small groups. Moose eat grass, leaves, twigs, willow, birch, maple shoots and water plants. After a pregnancy of 8 months, the female gives birth to one or two calves. Females can first become pregnant when they are between two and three years old. Young moose stay with their mother for a year; after one year they leave and live alone. Moose usually live to fifteen years old, but they can reach as old as twenty-seven years old. A mother moose will aggressively protect her young. Moose calves are hunted by bears and wolves.

A full-grown moose has few natural enemies. Siberian tigers prey on adult moose. Wolves also pose a threat, especially to females with calves. Brown bears are known to prey on moose, although bears are more likely to take over a wolf kill or to take young moose than to hunt adult moose on their own. American black bears and cougars can take moose calves and can sometimes kill adult cows. Wolverine are most likely to eat moose as carrion but have killed moose, including adults, when the moose are weakened by harsh winter conditions. Killer whales are the moose's only known marine predator. They have been known to prey on moose swimming between islands off North America's northwest coast.

Moose have been hunted by humans since the Stone Age.

Because of their dark coloured fur, moose are hard to see when they are crossing roads at night. They are sometimes hit by cars. In some countries like Canada, Finland and Sweden there are moose warning signs on roads and motorways are fenced.


Stanley Kubrick

Stanley Kubrick (July 26, 1928 – March 7, 1999) was an American movie director. Kubrick is thought to have been one of the great directors of the 20th century.

He was born in New York City but lived most of his life in England. His movies are respected for their great amount of detail and symbolism. Some of his movies were controversial when they were first shown. For example, the sex and violence in his movie "A Clockwork Orange" was very disturbing to many people who saw it when it was released in 1971. The reaction to the movie in the United Kingdom became so great that Stanley Kubrick stopped showing the movie there for over 25 years. Other famous movies that Kubrick made include "Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned To Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb", "" and "The Shining". Stanley Kubrick died from a heart attack on March 7, 1999.

Stanley Kubrick's filmmaking style is characterized by meticulous attention to detail, iconic imagery, a unique and uncompromising vision, a wide range of genres, symmetrical framing, use of music, subtle satire, memorable characters, and bold stylistic choices, leaving a profound impact on cinema.

Kubrick was born in Manhattan, New York City and grew up in the Bronx during his youth. Stanley was a poor student in school but his father, who was a doctor, taught Stanley how to play chess and gave him a camera. Kubrick finished high school in 1946 and could not get into a college. This was because of his poor grades in school and because colleges were full with many American soldier's who returned from World War II that same year. During this time, Kubrick played games of chess with people for money. He was a good chess player and won many games. He used the money he won from playing chess to buy food and photography equipment. Kubrick got a job at a magazine in New York City that was called Look Magazine. Kubrick also enjoyed watching movies and thought that he could make better movies than the movies that were being made at the time. He first made two small documentaries. One of them was about a boxer and was called "Day of the Fight". The other documentary was about a religious man and was called "Flying Padre". He then made two full-length movies (called feature films) that made other people interested in his work. The first feature film was called "Fear and Desire" and the other was called "Killer's Kiss." His third feature film, called "The Killing", was a success. The success of "The Killing" allowed Stanley to work on a bigger movie, called "Paths of Glory", that was about World War I and was made with the famous actor Kirk Douglas. At this time Kubrick became well known in the movie industry and had started to create his own style.

After Stanley Kubrick completed "Paths of Glory", he worked on a big Hollywood movie named "Spartacus" in 1960. The movie is about a gladiator who fights Rome. It made a lot of money and was a success but Kubrick did not enjoy working on it. He did not enjoy working on it because of problems he had with the other people working on the movie who controlled it. Kubrick desired to have a lot of control in making his movies, and after making "Spartacus" he only worked on movies that he had full control over.

Kubrick moved to the United Kingdom in 1962, to make his next movie, "Lolita". He liked the United Kingdom very much and decided to live there for the rest of his life. The movie "Lolita" was the first movie that Kubrick made that created a lot of controversy. The movie was based upon a book by the Russian author Vladimir Nabokov that was also very controversial at the time. The movie shows the relationship between a very young woman and an older man. This is a forbidden topic in the United States and most of the world.

For the movie "Lolita", Kubrick hired the talented and famous actor Peter Sellers. Kubrick respected Peter's acting and asked him to act as three different characters in Kubrick's next movie, "", which was released in 1963. "Dr. Strangelove" was a comedy but it was about very serious topics. These are called black comedies. The movie was about the Cold War and was very controversial but also very successful. The movie had a large cultural influence and created some images that became very famous in the years to follow. The most famous image from the movie was of an American pilot sitting on a nuclear bomb as it fell to earth from an airplane.

Kubrick's success with "Dr Strangelove" convinced the movie studios that he was talented and that he could be trusted to make good, popular movies. Kubrick entered into a positive relationship with the movie studio, Warner Brothers. Warner Brothers gave him almost full artistic control on all of the movies he was to make in the future. A director being given so much control is rare. Such directors are called "auteurs".

Kubrick took five years to develop and plan his next movie. It was a science fiction movie called "" and it was released in 1968. Kubrick based the movie on a short story called "The Sentinel" that was written by the science fiction author Arthur C. Clarke. Kubrick worked with Arthur C. Clarke to make the movie. The movie used many new ideas and techniques and had special effects that no other movie at the time had. The great special effects used in the movie won Kubrick his first and only Oscar award. "2001" was made during the end of the 1960s and was very popular with members of the Hippie Counterculture. This was because of the movies strange and dream-like visuals. When the movie was released it was both loved and hated by many movie critics. Many of the movie critics who did not like the movie when they saw it in 1968 have changed their opinions. Some of them have written a second, positive review of the movie many years later.

His next movie was one of his most famous and also his most controversial. The movie was titled "A Clockwork Orange" and was released in 1971. The movie was darker than "2001" and was originally released with an "X" motion picture rating in the US. The movie was based on a novel of the same title by the author Anthony Burgess. The novel and movie are about a criminal who is given a new and experimental 'cure' for his violent nature. The story asks questions about how society defines morality. The movie had an amount of sex and violence that was not often seen in big Hollywood movies at the time. The controversy of the movie increased when other people copied some of the acts that were committed by the characters in the movie. Kubrick and his family received violent threats from people, called death threats. These threats were serious enough that Kubrick took the movie out of theaters in Britain. The movie was not shown again in Britain until the year 2000, after Kubrick's death.

Kubrick's next movie was to going to be about Napoleon but he canceled it after another similar movie was released before his own. Kubrick worked very hard researching and learning about Napoleon and about the world at that time. Kubrick chose to make another movie set in that time that was titled "Barry Lyndon". The movie was based a book by William Makepeace Thackeray and was about an 18th-century gambler named Barry Lyndon. The movie was not as well liked as his previous movies but, like "2001: A Space Odyssey", it convinced people over time.

After "Barry Lyndon", Kubrick made movies at a much slower rate than before. He only made three more movies in the next twenty-five years. He was still very popular and respected. Each of the movies he released became an event that many people waited for and celebrated.

"The Shining" was Kubrick's next movie. It was based on the book of the same name by the American author, Stephen King and was released in 1980. It was a horror movie and starred Jack Nicholson and Shelley Duvall. The movie was one of Kubrick's most mainstream movies and was very popular. It was different from the other horror movies at the time and the catch phrase, "Here's Johnny!" (which was also used on the TV's The Tonight Show hosted by Johnny Carson at the time) was made very popular after Jack Nicholson's character said it during an important scene in the movie. The author of the book Stephen King hated the movie and did not like that Kubrick changed many things from the book. King made his own version, a TV mini-series in 1997, which was much more like the book.

"Full Metal Jacket" was Kubrick's next movie and was released in 1987. It was one of several movies that were made in the 1980s that were about the Vietnam War. The movie was most famous for its drill instructor character, played by R. Lee Ermey, who was very cruel to his soldiers. After the movie was released, the United States Armed Forces changed some of its rules about how their drill instructors should behave.

"Eyes Wide Shut" was Kubrick's last movie and was released in 1999. He completed editing the movie just before his death in March. The movie starred Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman, who were married to each other in real-life at the time. It was based on the novel "Traumnovelle" by the Austrian writer Arthur Schnitzler. The movie took over 16 consecutive months (a world record) to complete and was released in July 1999. According to R. Lee Ermey, of Full Metal Jacket Fame, Kubrick revealed to him that he was rather disappointed with his work. Kubrick supposedly went further, saying that both Kidman and Cruise "had their way with" him. Apparently a reference to a clashing of large-Hollywood personas to Kubrick's more reserved demeanor.

Just a few days after completing the editing of "Eyes Wide Shut", Kubrick died from a heart attack in Harpenden, Hertfordshire.

In the year 2001, the American movie director Steven Spielberg filmed "A.I.: Artificial Intelligence". "A.I" was a movie that Stanley Kubrick had worked on before "Eyes Wide Shut", but did not finish. Steven Spielberg based his movie on Kubrick's plans. The movie received a poor response from audiences and did not make as much money as expected. The movie was thought to be more Spielberg's movie than Kubrick's movie.


All of Stanley Kubrick's later movies, except for "The Shining", were nominated for Oscars or Golden Globes. "2001: A Space Odyssey" had many technical awards, including a BAFTA award for cinematographer and an Academy Award for best visual effects. As director of special effects on the movie, Kubrick got the award. This was Kubrick's only personal Oscar win among 13 nominations. Nominations for his movies were mostly in the areas of cinematography, art design, screenwriting, and music. Only four of his movies were nominated by either an Oscar or Golden Globe for their acting performances: "Spartacus", "Lolita", "Dr. Strangelove", and "A Clockwork Orange".

Personal awards for Kubrick:

Kubrick received two awards from major film festivals: "Best Director" from the Locarno International Film Festival in 1959 for "Killer's Kiss", and ""Bastone Bianco" Award" at the Venice Film Festival in 1999 for "Eyes Wide Shut". The Venice Film Festival awarded him the "Career Golden Lion" in 1997. He received the D.W. Griffith Lifetime Achievement Award from the Directors Guild of America, and another life-achievement award from the Director's Guild of Great Britain, and the "Career Golden Lion" from the Venice Film Festival. In 2000 he received the BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award. After he died, the Sitges - Catalonian International Film Festival awarded him the "Honorary Grand Prize" for life achievement in 2008. He also received the Hugo Award three times for his work in science fiction.


Kyoto Protocol

The Kyoto Protocol is a plan created by the United Nations for the "United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change" that tries to reduce the effects of climate change, such as global warming. The plan says that countries that adopt (follow) the Kyoto Protocol have to try to reduce how much carbon dioxide (and other "greenhouse gases" that pollute the atmosphere) they release into the air.
The full name of the Kyoto Protocol is the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. It is called the "Kyoto" Protocol because it was made in Kyoto, Japan. The Kyoto Protocol was officially put into "full force" on February 16, 2005. On February 16, Russia began to follow (ratify) the Kyoto Protocol and it was decided to be put into "full force". As of 2020, 192 countries have agreed to follow the Kyoto Protocol.
There are still 29 countries which have not yet adopted it. Croatia and Kazakhstan have signed the treaty, but have not ratified it (made it a law they have to follow). Donald Trump and The United States of America has signed it but said that they will not ratify it. Australia has only recently ratified the Kyoto Protocol under the previous Prime Minister, Kevin Rudd. Both of these countries have said that the fact that China and India are using exceptions to the treaty (those countries believe parts of the treaty do not apply to them and they will not follow those parts) in the name of industrialization is unfair and that they will not ratify because of this, although it is believed that the U.S. and Australia are protecting their economic interests by not ratifying. The countries' leaders say that changing their use of greenhouse gases will make their people lose jobs. The twenty four other countries have neither signed nor ratified the treaty. 

Movie director

A movie director is a person who leads the making of a movie (or "film"). They take care of the artistic things in the movie. They give instructions to the actors and direct the people that work on the movie.

Directors give many of their responsibilities to other members of their movie-making team (called a movie crew). For example, the person who is responsible for the lighting is told by the director what style of lighting he wants and he then creates the lighting for him. It is common for movie directors to work closely with a movie producer. Movie producers are people who control the non-artistic side of movie making. For example, they control all the money that is used for making the movie.

The amount of control a director has in creating their movie is different for each director. It is most common for directors to have some control, while the rest of the movie-making is controlled by the movie studio, and by the people who pay for making the movie. This was very common for American movies made in the 1930s to 1950s. There are a small number of directors who are given complete control over making their movies. For example, Stanley Kubrick, Jean-Luc Godard, Steven Spielberg and James Cameron all had a great amount of control in making their movie.

Jack Nicholson

John Joseph Nicholson (born April 22, 1937) is an American retired actor, director, producer and writer. He started out as a writer and part-time actor. He became a star in 1969 when he had a small part in the movie "Easy Rider". He has won three Oscars, for "As Good as it Gets", "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest", and "Terms of Endearment". He is one of the fans for Los Angeles Lakers. Nicholson is one of only two actors who have been nominated for an Academy Award for acting in every decade from the 1960s to 2000s; the other is Michael Caine. Nicholson received the Cecil B. DeMille Award in 1999. He has won seven Golden Globe Awards. He received a Kennedy Center Honor in 2001. Nicholson dropped out from the remake movie "Toni Erdmann".

Nicholson was born at Jersey Shore University Medical Center in Neptune City, New Jersey, He is son of showgirl June Frances Nicholson.

Nicholson has been linked to many actresses and models, including Michelle Phillips, Bebe Buell and Lara Flynn Boyle. He had a intimate relationship with Anjelica Huston from 1973 to 1989. The relationship ended when the media reported Rebecca Broussard was pregnant with their child. Nicholson and Broussard had two children together, Lorraine and Raymond. Nicholson's other children are Jennifer (born with Sandra Knight) and Honey Hollman (born with Winnie Hollman). Susan Anspach says that her son, Caleb Goddard, was fathered by Nicholson. He is not sure that he is the father. Nicholson describes himself as a "lifelong Irish Democrat", although he says he supports every President, and he is staunchly pro-life. He is Roman Catholic. In 2020, Nicholson endorsed Bernie Sanders's second presidential campaign for the 2020 nomination.


1860s

The 1860s was the decade that began on January 1, 1860 and ended on December 31, 1869.


College football is first played in 1869.


Autism spectrum

The autism spectrum, often called just autism or autism spectrum disorder, refers to a disorder of brain development caused by differences in the structure of the brain. Autism changes how someone thinks, understands the world, moves, communicates, and socializes. Autism is a spectrum disorder, which means that every person with autism will have different symptoms and different severity of symptoms. Some autistic people may need a lot of help with one thing. Other autistic people may not need help with the same thing. It may be easy to tell when someone is autistic, or it may not be.

The main areas of difference from non-autistic people is thinking differences (how people think and understand the world), sensory processing differences (how people react to stimuli), motor differences, communication differences, developmental differences, and socializing differences.

Signs of autism are usually present when a child is around two or three, but some people are not diagnosed until later. Some people are not diagnosed until they are adults. There is no cure for autism and many autistic people do not want a cure. They want to be accepted as different. This is called neurodiversity. Autistic people who want their differences to be accepted may be part of the autism rights movement.
The word “autism” comes from the Greek word “autos”, meaning “self.” The term describes conditions in which a person is removed from social interaction: an “isolated self”. The term "autism" was first used by a psychiatrist named Eugen Bleuler in 1911 to describe one group of symptoms of schizophrenia. Sigmund Freud considered this idea and thought it was related to narcissism.

In the 1940s, two researchers were studying autism in different countries; Hans Asperger in Austria and Leo Kanner in the United States.

In 1943 Kanner (a doctor from Johns Hopkins University) did a study of 11 children. He found out that they had difficulties such as changing environments, being sensitive to certain stimuli, having speech problems, and allergies to food. Later he named the children’s condition “early infantile autism”, now called "autism" spectrum disorder.

Hans Asperger was doing a similar study in Austria He found they also had “[...] a lack of empathy, little ability to form friendships, one-sided conversation, intense absorption in a special interest and clumsy movements”. It used to be thought that Hans Asperger and Leo Kanner were looking at different children and that Hans Asperger found a "mild form" of autism. This was the initial justification for Asperger syndrome. However, later research found that they were doing research on similar populations. Hans Asperger was also doing research in Nazi-controlled Austria, which believed in eugenics. Eugenics is the idea that some people are better than others. In Nazi-controlled Europe, people who were considered inferior could be killed, imprisoned, and discriminated against. Hans Asperger sent children with disabilities to be murdered.

In 1943 and 1949, Kanner described the children he studied in scientific papers. He thought the children's parents were not loving them enough. He wrote that this might be part of the reason why the children had autism. In 1949 he wrote that the children's parents showed no warmth, or love, to their children. He thought the parents were so "cold" that he compared them to refrigerators:"“[The children] were left neatly in refrigerators which did not defrost. Their withdrawal seems to be an act of turning away from such a situation to seek comfort in solitude”."This idea became known as the "refrigerator mother theory". For decades parents were blamed for causing their children's autism by not loving their children enough. Now we know this is not true.

Schizophrenia and autism were linked in many researchers’ studies. It was in the 1960s when medical professionals started to see these two disorders as separate conditions. Since 1980, Kanner’s so-called "early infantile autism" is listed in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM). It had a more accurate definition of autism in 1987. Since then, early infantile autism is called autism disorder. For the first time the DSM also introduced standardized criteria to diagnose autism. The fourth edition expanded the definition of autism and included milder cases of autism. Asperger’s syndrome was added as a type of autism in 1994.

Autism used to be considered many different conditions. Some diagnoses in the past include: Classical autism, Asperger's syndrome, and Pervasive Developmental Disorder Not Otherwise Specified (PDD-NOS). However, none of these separate diagnoses exist anymore. Both the US DSM-V (2013) and the ICD-11 (2022) have only one diagnosis: Autism spectrum disorder. This happened because doctors found that these diagnoses were frequently used in different ways. For example, one person could get a diagnosis of classical autism from one doctor, Asperger's from a second doctor, and PDD-NOS from a third doctor. This was hurting people's ability to access services and support.

Both the ICD-11 and the DSM-5 define autism by deficits. Deficits are areas where autistic people are not as good at something as non-autistic people. Autistic people have disagreed with how autism is defined by deficits and not by differences. In Welcome to the Autistic Community, a Simple English book, about being autistic, they refer to differences, rather than symptoms or deficits. Researchers and autistic advocates are working together on creating a way to diagnose that is based on autistic people's experiences of autism and is not deficit based.

The symptoms or characteristics of autism can look different depending on how old you are. Doctors are supposed to keep that in mind while diagnosing autism. For example, a toddler and an adult, while they both are autistic, would express it very differently.

These symptoms must be persistent. Persistent means that these symptoms must keep happening over a long span of time. If a symptom only happened once, it wouldn't be persistent. Autism is life-long.

These are the two areas where symptoms must be present to diagnose autism spectrum disorders. Both the ICD-11 and DSM-5 say that there have to be some symptoms in childhood, but that sometimes symptoms won't fully manifest until later.

Difficulty in social interactions and communicating with each other.

Some examples are:

This means behavior that happens over and over again and it is difficult to change. This can happen in many different situations: talking, routine, body movements, and others.

Some examples include:



