Andrew Jackson


Andrew Jackson Jr. (March 15, 1767 – June 8, 1845) was an American politician who was the seventh president of the United States from 1829 to 1837. He was the first president to be a Democrat and is on the twenty dollar bill. His nickname was "Old Hickory". He forced many Native Americans to leave their homeland so white people could live there, and many died and contracted diseases. This was called the Trail of Tears. He was also the first president to ride in a train.

As a boy Andrew Jackson was a messenger for the Continental Army. The British caught him and mistreated him.

He was the first U.S. president who was not born into a rich family. He was not a rich man and did not have a college education. He moved to Tennessee and became a politician.

During the War of 1812, he became a general and won the Battle of New Orleans which made him very famous. He joined the war because of childhood trauma that he had endured during the Revolutionary War; both his mother and his brother died during the war, and Jackson blamed the British and wanted to avenge his late loved ones.

In 1791, he fell in love with Rachel Donelson Robards. They went through a marriage ceremony. However, the marriage was not legal because she had not been granted a divorce from her first husband. Therefore, they married legally three years later. They had no children, but they adopted several. He became rich and owned a large plantation.

In the 1790s Jackson was a member of the United States House of Representatives, the United States Senate, and the Supreme Court of Tennessee. In 1823 he returned to the Senate.

Andrew Jackson reorganized the Democratic Party and was its leader.

In 1828, he defeated John Quincy Adams in the Presidential Election of 1828, he became president on March 4, 1829, and four years later he was re-elected to a second term as president. In the Nullification Crisis of 1832-1833, South Carolina declared secession from the United States. Jackson threatened war, and then compromised.

In January 1835, Jackson was almost assassinated when an unemployed painter wanted to shoot him but both his guns jammed. He is the first president to have had an attempted assassination.

In 1830, Jackson signed the Indian Removal Act which allowed the U.S. government to violently force the Native Americans to move from their land and go west. Many Native Americans were killed and the path they walked to get to the west was called the Trail of Tears.

Andrew Jackson was against the national bank of the United States because he felt that banks and their banknotes were for rich and powerful people and did not serve the interests of the common man. The national bank expired during Jackson's presidency. Jackson chose not to continue the bank.

On March 4, 1837, Andrew Jackson finished his second term. After that, vice-president Martin Van Buren was elected president and continued many of the things Jackson did. Jackson was a big influence on other Democrats during the 1800s. He died in Nashville Tennessee at age 78 due to heart failure.

Jackson's legacy among historians is mixed and heavily debated. Some have liked him because he was against aristocrats, bankers, businessmen, the British Empire, cities, and paper money, and in favor of ordinary country people. Some have disliked him for the same reasons and because he was in favor of war and against Indians.


Pillow

A pillow is a soft cushion that a person puts under their head when they are sleeping in a bed. 

A pillow is made from two pieces of cloth that are sewn together and stuffed with a soft material, such as feathers, duck down, or synthetic batting (man made soft stuffing). Pillows are usually rectangular. Pillows are covered with a fabric sheet called a pillowcase. The pillowcase protects the pillow from getting dirty.

The word "pillow" comes from Middle English "pilwe", from Old English "pyle" (akin to Old High German "pfuliwi") and from Latin "pulvinus". The word "pillow" was first known to be used before the 12th century.

There is no clear inventor of the pillow. Millions of years ago, animals learned to use pillows. An early example is monkeys resting their heads on their arm. Many animals, including birds, use wood and stone nests as pillows. Many domesticated animals have also learned to make use of human-made pillows and cushions. They also rest on members of their own and other species for the same reason.

In ancient Mesopotamia, people slept on stone pillows. Pillows were a status symbol. Early pillows were rectangular and had grooves shaped for the head. Pillows showed the wealth of a person — the more a person owned the wealthier they were.

Anicent Egyptians used pillows as a solution to back, neck and shoulder pain. They also prevented insects from crawling in their hair, mouth or nose at night. Anicent Egyptian pillows were made out of wood and stone and looked like stands. These pillows were mostly used for the deceased.

Whaler

A whaler is a person who hunts whales, or the boat they use.
They hunt whales for their oil, made from their fat, called "blubber", and the meat. Today, there is a treaty which bans the hunt of some whale species. Most countries signed the treaty. A few countries still hunt whales for research purposes. Among those countries are Norway, Iceland and Japan.


Crayon

A crayon (or wax pastel) is a stick of pigmented wax used for writing or drawing. Wax crayons differ from pastels, in which the pigment is mixed with a dry binder such as gum arabic, and from oil pastels, where the binder is a mixture of wax and oil.

Crayons are available in a range of prices, and are easy to work with. They are less messy than most paints and markers, blunt (removing the risk of sharp points present when using a pencil or pen), typically non-toxic, and available in a wide variety of colors. These characteristics make them particularly good instruments for teaching small children to draw in addition to being used widely by student and professional artists.

Self-defence

Self-defence means fighting off something or another person to protect yourself and maybe others. Ways of self-defence include martial arts or using a weapon. Sometimes, self-defense can cause serious harm to the other person. In most nations, you cannot be prosecuted for this harm. In the United States, an act of self-defence can only count as self-defence if the victim is in a situation that can cause them serious injury or death. In international law all persons have the right to self-defence.

The law of self-defence is the same when you protect others. Generally, you must have a good reason or belief that you needed to defend yourself in self-defence. However, in many places, if the court decides that the defence may have been too extreme, the person may face criminal and civil charges.


1153

1153 was a common year.


1913

1913 (MCMXIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar, and a common year starting on a Tuesday in the 13-day slower Julian calendar. It was the 913th year of the 2nd Millennium, 13th year of the 20th Century and the 4th year of the 1910s decade.












