Marvel Comics


Marvel Comics is an American comic book company that makes "superhero" comic books. Marvel was started in 1939 by Martin Goodman as Timely Comics, and by 1951 had generally become known as Atlas Comics. The Marvel era began in 1961, the year that the company launched "The Fantastic Four" and other superhero titles created by Stan Lee, Jack Kirby, Steve Ditko and many others. In 2009, The Walt Disney Company bought Marvel for US$4 billion. Its top rival is DC Comics (the publications of Superman, Batman, and Wonder Woman). 

The company is known for featuring such well-known characters as Spider-Man, Hulk, Wolverine, X-Men, Captain America, Iron Man, Thor, Fantastic Four, Daredevil, Punisher, the Avengers, among others. The majority of its publications take place within the fictional Marvel Universe, with most locations mirroring real-life places; many major characters are based in New York City. Additionally, Marvel has published several licensed properties from other companies. This includes "Star Wars" comics twice from 1977 to 1986 and again since 2015.

Marvel Comics has adapted its characters to different forms of media, including action figures, movies, television series, and video games, which have made them even more popular.

Marvel Comics began life as "Timely Publications" in 1939, with comic books featuring Captain America, Namor the Sub-Mariner and an early version of Human Torch. Legendary comics writer Stan Lee was hired as an office assistant in 1939. Within two years, the 19-year-old Lee was promoted to editor of the Marvel Comics line, a post that he would keep until 1972.

Everything changed in 1961, when Stan Lee and artist Jack Kirby ushered in "The Marvel Age of Comics" by creating "The Fantastic Four" which brought a new style of superhero comic that focused on the characters' internal drama as well as their heroic adventures. The style was a huge success, and the Lee/Kirby team went on to create the Incredible Hulk, Iron Man, the Mighty Thor, the X-Men, the Avengers, and the Inhumans. The prolific Lee worked with artist Steve Ditko to create Marvel's greatest success story, Spider-Man. Stan Lee's Marvel revolution extended beyond the characters and storylines to the way in which comic books engaged the readership and built a sense of community between fans and creators.

Marvel Comics have been translated all over the world, and in many languages, most notably in Europe ("Arédit" and "Marvel France" imprints) and Québec, Canada ("Éditions Héritage").

Today, Marvel's heroes are blockbuster stars on the silver screen; with Spider-Man, Iron Man, the X-Men, Wolverine, Deadpool, Captain America, the Hulk, the Avengers, the Guardians of the Galaxy, Ant-Man and numerous others becoming regular features of the summer movie season. Additionally, heroes like the Defenders, the Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., Runaways, Daredevil, Jessica Jones, Luke Cage, the Punisher and others have found success on the small screen.

Located in New York City, Marvel has had successive headquarters:

 

Lincoln, Nebraska

The city of Lincoln is the capital city of Nebraska, United States. Only Omaha has more people of any city in Nebraska. Lincoln is also the county seat of Lancaster County and the home of the University of Nebraska. Lincoln's 2020 Census population was 291,082.

Lincoln was founded in 1856 as the village of Lancaster. It became the county seat of the newly created Lancaster County in 1859. The capital of Nebraska Territory had been Omaha since the start of the territory in 1854. Most of the territory's population lived south of the Platte River. After much of the territory south of the Platte became a part of Kansas, the legislature voted to move the capital south of the river and as far west as possible. They made the village of Lancaster the new capital, in part due to the salt flats and marshes.

People from Omaha tried to stop the move by renaming Lancaster after the recently killed President Abraham Lincoln. Many of the people south of the river had wanted the Confederate to win the recent Civil War. These people thought that the legislature would not approve the move if the future capital were named after Lincoln. The plan did not work, as Lancaster was renamed Lincoln and also became the state capital upon Nebraska's admission to the Union on March 1, 1867. The people either liked or disliked the new name depending on how they felt about the Civil War.
Nebraska State Capitol was designed by Bertram Grosvenor Goodhue and constructed between 1922 and 1932. The capitol building is a skyscraper topped by a golden dome. The tower is crowned by a 6-meter (20 ft) statue of a farmer sowing grain on a pedestal of wheat and corn, to represent the state's agricultural heritage. City zoning rules prevent any other building from rivaling it in height, making it a landmark not only within the city but for the surrounding area. Inside, there are many paintings and iridescent murals showing Native American heritage and the history and culture of the early pioneers who settled Nebraska. It is the second tallest U.S. State Capitol building behind the Louisiana State Capitol building in Baton Rouge.

In March of 2023, Red Way was announced to start operating from Lincoln Airport, but, in August of 2023, because the airline was running out of money, the airline decided to shut down.

Lincoln has a humid continental climate ("Dfa" in the Köppen climate classification).

Nuclear fission

Nuclear fission is a kind of nuclear reaction. It is when an atom splits apart into smaller atoms. Some fission reactions give off a lot of energy, and are used in nuclear weapons and nuclear reactors. Nuclear fission was discovered in December 1938 by physicists Lise Meitner and Otto Frisch, who observed a uranium nucleus splitting in two. Although they originally thought the two tiny resulting nuclei were barium isotopes, what Meitner and Frisch truly saw was a process that would revolutionize nuclear chemistry: nuclear fission

An atom is the smallest particle which makes up a chemical element (e.g. hydrogen, oxygen, magnesium). All atoms are very small. Atoms are made of three components or particles: Protons, neutrons and electrons. The protons and neutrons are clumped together in a ball called a nucleus, at the center of every atom. The electrons orbit around the nucleus in its 'electron cloud'. Elements which have large nuclei, such as uranium and plutonium, can be made to fission. 

If a (relatively) very large atomic nucleus is hit by a slow-moving neutron, it will sometimes become unstable and break into two nuclei. When the nucleus breaks apart (or fissions) it releases energy, mostly as gamma rays and heat. It also causes some neutrons to be released from the nucleus.

For a few isotopes (an atom with the same amount of protons but a different amount of neutrons) such fission can release many neutrons. If those neutrons then hit other atoms, they will make the other atoms split. This can happen again and again. This is called a nuclear chain-reaction, and it can release huge amounts of energy. Nuclear chain-reactions occur most commonly with Uranium-235. The splitting of Uranium-235 is started when a neutron is slammed into its positively charged nucleus. This results in two lighter isotopes (Barium-141 and Krypton-92), whose total mass is less than that of the original Uranium isotope. The “mass defect” is converted into various forms of energy. A neutron is also released, triggering the chain reaction as each additional neutron causes further collisions with existing Uranium isotopes. 

This reaction can occur "spontaneously" if the original nucleus is highly unstable. The resulting products are radioactive isotopes, but do not release enough energy to generate usable power or make a bomb due to the lack of a chain reaction. 
In a nuclear bomb, this must happen very quickly to make a very big explosion. The amount of energy released in the explosion is measured in kilotons. One kiloton is the same as the energy of one thousand tons of trinitrotoluene.
In a nuclear reactor this must happen slowly to make heat. The heat is used to boil water into steam, which turns a steam turbine to generate electricity.


1903

1903 (MCMIII) was a common year starting on Thursday of the Gregorian calendar.









