Square kilometre


A square kilometer (British English spelling "square kilometre", in short "km²") is a unit of measurement of area.
It is based on the SI unit meter.

A square that has a side length of 1 kilometer (1000 meters) has an area of one square kilometer.
There are 100 hectares in one square kilometer.
One square kilometer is just less than 0.39 square miles.

Square kilometer is often used to say how much surface something occupies on Earth.
It can, for example, be used to describe the area of a city or country.
These usually take more than 1 km² on Earth.

The number of people living in a square kilometer is known as population density.

Judge

A judge is a person who is in control of a court of law.

The way to become a judge depends on each country. In some countries, judges must work with the law (often as a lawyer) for a number of years before they can "sit as a judge" in a courthouse. Judges are supposed to conduct the trial in an open courtroom and impartially.

In many English speaking countries, judges cannot make some decisions on their own. In these countries, juries are used, but not for all cases. The modern jury trial first developed in mid-12th century England during the reign of Henry II. Today, the details differ between one country and another.

If there is a jury, the judge has the job of making sure the person taken to court is treated in a fair way. Some courts will have more than one judge. For important decisions about the laws of a country, countries may have a "supreme court" or "high court" with many (nine or more) judges in it. In the United States, judges on a supreme court are called "justices" and are led by a "Chief Justice".

In many countries, judges wear special clothes while being in court. Often this is a black robe or cloak. Supreme or High Court judges often wear a red cloak. Judges in some countries also wear a special long wig. They also used to put a piece of black material on their head when they sentenced a person to die.

Guilt (law)

In criminal law, a person is guilty if a court has decided they have done something illegal. If a person has broken a law by stealing, for example, they are guilty of a crime.

A person is guilty if a court says they are. The court has blamed them for doing something wrong. A guilty person is punished. The punishment is called the sentence.

Length

Length is a measurement. The length of something is the distance between two ends of the thing. Short means a small length. Long means much length. Short and long are opposites. For two dimensional things, length is usually the longer side.

A ruler is a tool used to measure length.

All the sides on shapes have a length. The length is between the two points of the side. You can also find the length of any two points on a shape, even if they are not on one side.

A shape can have different lengths based on how many dimensions it takes.


Length can also mean an amount of time. The length is measured by looking at the time at the start, then looking at the time at the end.

You might sit down at one o'clock. If you stand up at three o'clock, you would be sitting for two hours. The length of time is two hours.

Weight

The weight of an object (or the weight of an amount of matter) is the measure of the intensity of the force imposed on this object by the local gravitational field. Weight should not be confused with the related but quite different concept of mass. For small objects on Earth, the weight force is directed towards the center of the planet. For larger objects, such as the Moon orbiting around the Earth, the force is directed towards the center of mass of the combined system.

In common language, the weight of something is typically understood to be the value measured at or near the Earth's surface. Unfortunately the common terms used to describe the weight of an object are units of mass such as kilograms or pounds. For almost all of human history, weight has been measured on the surface of the Earth. Here, the weight is proportional to the mass. Objects which have the same mass have the same weight. An object with the twice the mass of another will also have twice the weight. As a consequence it is common practice to use the two words, mass and weight, as if they mean the same thing and to use kilograms and pounds as the units for both mass and weight. Using the same terms to describe and measure the two different properties has led to confusion between these two properties, mass and weight. Mass and weight are not the same thing.

The unit of weight in the International System of Units is the newton, which is represented by the symbol 'N'.

Other units have been in use in the past but have been abandoned, such as the dyne (the unit of force in the old CGS system) or the kilogram-force, which is the force exerted on a 
kilogram of matter by a 'standard' Earth: a body with a mass of 1 kg has a weight of about 9.81 N at sea level.

The weight of an object, or of an amount of matter, is typically measured with an instrument such as a spring scale. The scale includes a spring which provides a force to oppose the gravitational force on the object which is being weighed. The gravitational force pulls down, the spring pushes or pulls upwards. Typically, the scale has a readout which gives not the weight (which is a force) but rather the mass of the object. Spring scales are made with the assumption that they are being used on the surface of the Earth. If a spring scale was taken to the Moon it would give a misleading reading.

A balance style weighing scale is a device that compares the weights of two object in the same gravitational field: it determines whether one object is heavier or lighter than the other.

Weight is not an intrinsic property of matter because the local gravitational field that generates the force called weight is variable in space and time:


Truth

The truth is what is true. It may be everything that is true (reality) or just a part of it (a fact). It may also be a statement that is true: a truth. Things or statements that are not true are untrue or false. True things exist (or have existed); false things do not (or never have).

Aristotle said: "To say of what is that it is not, or of what is not that it is, is false, while to say of what is that it is, and of what is not that it is not, is true." However, a statement may be about how things once were; this would be a true statement if it is clear that it is not a statement about how things are now. Most often, the tense of the verb will indicate this, but there may be other ways in which the statement is qualified: for example, by saying when the statement was true.

Truth is a noun, and the corresponding adjective is true. The word "true" also functions as a noun, a verb and an adverb. The English word "truth" is from Old English "tríewþ, tréowþ, trýwþ", Middle English "trewþe".

Most of the discussion on truth is about one of two things:
Many philosophers have given opinions on these issues.


Something untrue is false. A half truth is something true mixed with something false, or something partly true with key information omitted.

If the things one says are true, then they are speaking the truth, or speaking truly. Saying something that is untrue can be called a lie, if the person who is saying it knows it is untrue. A person who says something untrue is often called a "liar".

"True" is also one of the two basic values of logic. The other such value is usually called "false". In symbols, "true" is written as, T or 1.

Aristotle was the first to put logic into a formal framework. His version is called propositional logic (see also syllogism and deductive reasoning). Other forms of logic use types of mathematics (mathematical logic) or symbols. Boolean algebra is about things being true and false.

The relationship between verbal claims and external reality is handled by epistemology and the philosophy of science.

Philosophers argue over what makes up truth and how to define and identify truth.



