Dodgeball


Dodgeball is a sport played by throwing soft balls, or hard rubber balls, at people in a square court. The goal is to be the last one to be hit with the ball. Players may only throw balls at people who are not on their own team. If a player is hit by the ball,he or she should go to the outside of the court to the other team. From the outside, players throw the ball at players still on the inside.

Dodgeball is often played in elementary schools in physical education classes. Many school children play this game. In recent years, many adults who played it as children have formed adult leagues and clubs. Also, some schools have banned it (this means that made it against the rules to play it), because players can get hurt when playing the game. Tournaments are sometimes held in schools.

Dodgeball, because of its recent popularity, inspired a film "" (2004) starring Ben Stiller and Vince Vaughn, and a game show, "Extreme Dodgeball".

Local area network

A local area network (LAN) is a computer network in a small area like a home, office, or school. Many computers can be connected to share information and Internet connections. Most LANs use Ethernet to connect together.
LAN topologies tell you how ROM devices are organised. Five common LAN topologies exist: bus, ring, star, tree, and mesh. These topologies are logical architectures. This means that they tell you the directions that signals go between devices, but that the actual cables that connect the devices might not be connected the same way. For example, logical bus and ring topologies are commonly organized physically as a star. 


Pharaoh

As ancient Egyptian rulers, pharaohs were both the heads of state and the religious leaders of their people. The word “pharaoh” means “Great House,” a reference to the palace where the pharaoh resides. While early Egyptian rulers were called “kings,” over time, the name “pharaoh” stuck.

As the religious leader of the Egyptians, the pharaoh was considered the divine intermediary between the gods and Egyptians. Maintaining religious harmony and participating in ceremonies were part of the pharaoh’s role as head of the religion. As a statesman, the pharaoh made laws, waged war, collected taxes, and oversaw all the land in Egypt (which was owned by the pharaoh).

Many scholars believe the first pharaoh was Narmer, also called Menes. Though there is some debate among experts, many believe he was the first ruler to unite upper and lower Egypt (this is why pharaohs hold the title of “lord of two lands”). Pharaohs were typically male, although there were some noteworthy female leaders, like Hatshepsut and Cleopatra. Hatshepsut, in particular, was a successful ruler, but many inscriptions and monuments about her were destroyed after her death—perhaps to stop future women from becoming pharaohs.

After their deaths, many pharaohs were entombed and surrounded by riches they were meant to use in the afterlife. Explorers and archaeologists have discovered these tombs and learned a great deal about ancient Egyptian society from them. One very famous example was in 1922 when archaeologist Howard Carter discovered the tomb of King Tutankhamen, a pharaoh who died when he was only nineteen.

Hatshepsut was the fifth pharaoh of the Eighteenth Dynasty of Egypt. Hatshepsut was the second historically confirmed female pharaoh. She came to the throne in 1478 BC. This masks presents the idealized forms of Hatshepsut's face, perfect features with equal symmetry!

King Tutankhamun was an ancient Egyptian pharaoh who ruled between 1334 - 1325 BC. Tutankhamun was the last of his royal family to rule during the end of the 18th Dynasty.

Cleopatra VII was the queen of the Ptolemaic Kingdom of Egypt. The Ptolemaic Kingdom of Egypt was an ancient Hellenistic state. Cleopatra’s leadership saw her forestall the fall of Egypt to the Roman Empire.

Amenhotep III was the ninth pharaoh of the Eighteenth Dynasty. He ruled Egypt from June 1386 to 1349 BC. He reigned during the peak of Egypt's artistic and international power.

King Narmer was an ancient Egyptian pharaoh of the Early Dynastic Period. Scholars have considered Narmer the unifier of Egypt and founder of the First Dynasty.

Ramesses III was the second Pharaoh of the Twentieth Dynasty in Ancient Egypt. Ramesses III reigned from 1186 to 1155 BC and is believed to have been the last great monarch of the New Kingdom to wield power over Egypt.

Thutmose I was the third pharaoh of the eighteenth Dynasty of Egypt. Thutmose I campaigned deep into the Levant and Nubia, pushing the borders of Egypt farther than before.

Pepi I Meryre was an Ancient Egyptian pharaoh and the third king of the Sixth Dynasty of Egypt. He ruled for over forty years during the 24th and 23rd centuries BC, towards the end of the Old Kingdom Period.

Userkaf was a pharaoh of ancient Egypt and the founder of the Fifth Dynasty. Userkaf reigned during the Old Kingdom Period for seven to eight years in early 25th century BC. It is believed that Userkaf may have been a high priest of Ra before ascending to the throne.

Djedefre was an ancient Egyptian pharaoh king of the 4th Dynasty during the Old Kingdom. Djedefre was the son and immediate throne successor of Khufu, the builder of the Great Pyramid of Giza.

Nefertiti was a queen of the 18th Dynasty of Ancient Egypt and the Great Royal Wife of Pharaoh Akhenaten. Nefertiti and her husband were known to lead a religious revolution as the couple only believed in one god, Aten, the disc of the sun.


Gilligan's Island

Gilligan's Island is a 1964 American television series. The series is about seven people (two crew members and five tourists) who take a 3-hour sightseeing tour from a marina in Hawaii. This occurs on the boat, S.S. "Minnow". An unexpected storm sends the boat to an uncharted island. Now, the passengers of the boat have to live on the island and try to find a way home. Most of the episodes involved the characters trying to survive a problem or trying to contact help.


Diaper

A diaper (or nappy) is a piece of clothing. It is worn by those who cannot control their urine or feces.

Diapers can be made of cloth (usually cotton) that can be washed and used again. They can also be disposable (put in the garbage after they are used up). Disposable diapers are usually made of plastic or man-made (artificial) fibers and contain chemicals that are very absorbent.

Diapers that can be washed must be folded in intricate ways (like origami) before being put on. With the disposable you must constantly buy new ones.

Viewed as unpleasant by some, diapers are mostly used by children from birth until the child has learned to use a toilet. They are also used by older people. There are adult diapers for people with medical problems.

In the United Kingdom, Australia and several other countries, a diaper is called a nappy.

Sometimes adults who do not have medical problems also wear diapers. This can be for different reasons. Sometimes it is because they have a profession where they cannot always get to a bathroom, like astronauts. Some adults wear diapers for fun. This is usually a form of sexual pleasure, or for emotional reasons. These people are often called "diaper-lovers" or "adult-babies." The scientific term for liking to wear diapers is "Diaper Fetishists."

Mork &amp; Mindy

Mork and Mindy is an American television sitcom which ran from 1978 to 1982. It stars Robin Williams and Pam Dawber as the title characters. The series was made by Garry Marshall. Comedian Jonathan Winters has a recurring role in the series. "Mork and Mindy" is a spin-off from Marshall's other popular TV series, "Happy Days". The plot of the series is that alien named Mork from a planet called Ork who travels to Earth and becomes friends with a woman named Mindy in Boulder, Colorado.

1954

1954 (MCMLIV) was .





