C. S. Lewis


Clive Staples Lewis (29 November 1898 – 22 November 1963), usually called C. S. Lewis, was a British scholar who wrote about 40 books. He was born in Belfast, Northern Ireland.

are usually apologetics, the defence of Christianity. Some of his most popular Christian writings were "Mere Christianity" and "The Screwtape Letters". His works have been translated into more than 30 languages. Lewis was a professor of literature at the University of Oxford and the University of Cambridge.

Lewis was married to American writer Joy Davidman (1915–1960) from 1956 until her death from bone cancer. He died of renal failure in Oxford. 

His writing is popular with many people, and many of his books were made into movies. His most famous and popular fantasy work is "The Chronicles of Narnia", which is a series of seven books.

He died in Oxford, Oxfordshire, England on 22 November 1963.


The Corrs

The Corrs is a folk pop rock band from Ireland. There are three sisters and one brother in the quartet. They became very popular in the late 1990s.

They were all born in Dundalk, Republic of Ireland, the children of Gerry and Jean Corr.

Jim Corr (born 31 July 1964) is the oldest member of the group. He mainly plays the guitar, but he can also play the on the keyboards and the piano.

Sharon Corr (born 24 March 1970) plays the violin, keyboards, and does backing vocals and vocals on her own (vocals means "singing").

Caroline Corr, (born 17 March 1973) plays the drums, the "percussion", the bodhran, the piano, and also does backing vocals.

Andrea Corr (born 17 May 1974) plays the tin whistle and does the lead vocals.

The Corrs created themselves in 1991 to try to get in the movie "The Commitments". Jim, Sharon, and Caroline got a small part as musicians, while Andrea got a speaking part as Sharon Rabbitte, sister of the main character. It was while they were trying out for this movie that they were noticed by their manager, John Hughes.

Their music has been released through Atlantic Records, a music company.

Their first album, "Forgiven, Not Forgotten", was most popular in Australia. They then did another album called "Talk On Corners", which was very popular in Ireland and Britain.





