Meher Baba


Meher Baba (25 February 1894 31 January 1969) referred to himself as the Avatar of the Age. His birth name was Merwan Irani and his parents' names were Sheriar and Shireen Irani. His family lived in Poona (Pune) India, but they were of Persian descent. Today Persia is called Iran. They were not Hindus or Muslims, but were of the Zoroastrian religion.

Merwan had a normal childhood and liked poetry and sports, especially cricket. When he was thirteen years old he started a boy's club with his best school friends called "The Cosmopolitan Club". The boys in the club kept up on the news, practiced public speaking at their clubhouse, and raised money to give to the poor. He graduated from St. Vincent's High School and attended Deccan College. In 1913, when Baba was nineteen, he was coming home from college riding a bicycle. A very old Muslim woman named Hazrat Babajan, referred to as a Perfect Master (God Realized), was sitting under a Neem tree, called for him to come over to her, he said he was drawn to her like iron to a magnet. He began spending time visiting with her and serving her. In 1914 she kissed him on the forehead, he then went home. Baba later said that he became so dazed after this kiss that he could barely find his way home, and that when Babajan kissed him, initially he lost all consciousness of the world, he then realized God within himself. He was so dazed he neither ate or slept for several weeks. Moving about semi-autonomously in 1915 Merwan was drawn to the other five Perfect Masters, beginning with Sai Baba of Shirdi who upon seeing Merwan called out to him "Parvardigar!" (Divine Sustainer). Upasni Maharaj, also a Perfect Master on seeing Merwan thru a stone, hitting him on the forehead where Babajan had kissed Merwan. He often went to live with Upasni at Sakori. The five Masters assisted Merwan in regaining his integration of the physical world of duality with the Divine Oneness that is the Avatar's natural state. Merwan served as their disciple while in fact he was already fully God Realized. 

The process of integration took 7 years during which Merwan often stayed at Upasni's ashram. He also visited with Babajan and stayed with his family, as his integration became more functional he began taking on jobs such as working at his father's toddy shop, and managing a group of performers. In 1921 Upasni told some of his followers that Merwan was the Avatar of the Age and that they should now follow Merwan. In 1921 one of these early disciples began calling Merwan "Meher Baba" which means "Compassionate Father". In 1922 Meher Baba and a group of male disciples walked from Ponna (Pune) to Bombay (Mumbai) where he established his first ashram, Manzil-e-Meem (House of the Master) where over the next year he trained them as his disciples, from then on Baba would be their spiritual guide. Baba eventually took these new followers to Ahmednagar, to a place now called Meherabad. There he gave discourses on spirituality, worked with the local poor villagers, established a dispensary and hospital, cared for the God-mad "masts", and started boarding school for children of all faiths and castes, all free of charge. Gradually his following grew.
In 1925 Meher Baba began keeping silent and for the rest of his life Baba did not speak. He communicated first by writing on slates but then adapted an English alphabet board by pointing to letters painted on it. Years later he stopped using the alphabet board and used his own form of hand gestures. He kept silent until his death in 1969. Some people called him "The Silent Master" and there is a book by that title.

Meher Baba traveled around the world many times. He visited many countries. He spent several months in England, Australia and the United States. Many thousands of people came to see him. Some of them became his followers. 

In 1954, when Baba was sixty years old, he said publicly for the first time that he was the Avatar. In the ancient language of Sanskrit, the word "Avatar" means one who has come down from God. Baba said that the Avatar is born on Earth every 700–1400 years, and comes to help others find God. Meher Baba said that in the past the Avatar had been on Earth as Zoroaster, Rama, Krishna, Buddha, Jesus, and Muhammad.

Meher Baba's most famous quote is "Don't Worry, Be Happy," partly because it appeared in a popular song. Others know of him because of the song "Baba O'Reilly" written by Pete Townshend who is a follower of his and named the song partly after Baba. 

Regarding publications, there are two of major significance. In "Discourses", messages that were given by Meher Baba concerning many areas of the spiritual life are clearly presented. In "God Speaks", Meher Baba dictated and explained the complete journey of the incarnate soul from stone to man, over thousands of years and many lifetimes, culminating in God Realization; the goal of life. He said, "Real happiness lies in making others happy." He showed his followers that the best path is to love God at all times by loving your fellow man, exemplified by his own life of Selfless Service.

He also said he had not come to start a new religion—but to revitalize all religions: "I shall revitalize all religions and cults, and bring them together like beads on one string". His followers come from all religions: Zoroastrians, Christians, Jews, Hindus, Muslims, Sufis, Buddhists, and Sikhs, as well as from no religion, there are atheists and agnostics who may not necessarily believe in God, but who are attracted purely to his honest and loving way of life.


Trailer

Trailer has the following definitions:


Uno (card game)

Uno (stylized on usual branding as UNO) is an American card game that was made by Merle Robbins in 1971. It has since been bought by a company named Mattel. It uses 108 special ca made just to play "Uno". It is similar to Crazy Eights.

The cards are put into 4 different groups: Red cards, green cards, blue cards and yellow cards. There are also some other cards calleds". Skip, Reverse, Draw +2(This the way), Wild, and Wild +4 cards allow you to do something you cannot normally do, such as pick up two more card

Each player starts off with 7 cards, randomly assigned. A card from the main deck is then placed in the center for everyone to see. The first player must put down a card that is either the sane color or number, or a willayer puta down a regular card, the next person has to put down another card of the same color or number, and it keeps on going in order. When a skip cad. A reverse card reverses the order of the game. A wild card "(Card with 4 col' can be placed above any color, and the player chooses what color they want everyone to continue with until someone puta down a card with the same number but a different color or a wild card. +2 cards force the next player to draw 2 cards, but +4 cards force the next player to draw 4 cards and the current player gets to pick a new color of their choice.

UNO

Uno can mean:

UNO is an acronym for:

Electrical engineering

Electrical engineering is a subject of engineering. Its goal is to develop (think and make) different things that use electricity in a helpful way. Electrical engineers fix or design new and better ways of using devices that use electricity.

Big subjects in electrical engineering include power generation, automation and control of robots, digital systems, and information technology (using radio and computers to move and use data). To meet new needs, electrical engineering produced new specialties, such as electronic engineering and software engineering.

Early universities taught this as philosophy and later as science. As the industrial revolution began they had to start teaching new parts of these sciences to keep up with the demand for new resources. 

When the industrial era began, we needed to study mathematics, physics and chemistry to help support it. These subjects are "applied" (or, used in the real world) using engineering. In the late 19th century when electricity was used to make electric motors and to send messages to far away places, a new branch called electrical engineering was invented. When radio became important, many engineers worked at it, and their branch was later expanded to cover electronic engineering.


Design

Design is the visual appearence or shape given to an object. Design aims to make things prettier, more comfortable, or better in some way by making them work well and look good.

Good design decisions can make a space, for example, a hospital or an airport, more accessible or an image more attractive for advertisements, adding value in the market.

Designers use knowledge and rules from geometry and art to create their designs.

Design is sometimes divided to sub-categories, including graphic design, interior design, vehicle design, furniture design, product design, type design, fashion design and web design, to name a few.

Design doesn't always lead to physical objects; it can involve applications, websites, prototypes, presentations, or serve as a plan for creating something else.

Design is also a concept used to create an object (virtual or not). Design is picturing things using the imagination; as to using perception or memory.

<br>

Star Trek

Star Trek is an American media franchise owned by Paramount and CBS, as well as various spin-offs. 

The main parts of the "Star Trek" franchise are:
Other parts of the franchise are: books (both fiction and non-fiction), magazines, comics, action figures, model toys and computer video games.

"Star Trek" was created as a TV series in 1966 by Gene Roddenberry. He and the other authors of "Star Trek" have, over time, developed a whole fictional universe set in the future. Following this fictional universe is the way they have chosen to maintain continuity between the various TV series and the movies.

"Trekkies" or "Trekkers" may refer to the many fans who love the series and support this "Star Trek Universe". Many conventions and newsletters exist to serve these fans. There are even amateur movies made by the fans.

In the 1960s, Gene Roddenberry created "Star Trek". He sold it as a western (a television genre about cowboys), but in space, and compared it to the television show "Wagon Train". He also based it on "Gulliver's Travels". After two pilots (test episodes), "Star Trek" was first shown on television in 1966.

In 2053, World War III ended on Earth. In 2063 Zefram Cochrane, invented the warp drive, a way to travel faster than the speed of light. Because of this invention, Vulcans came to Earth to meet the humans. This is shown in "". The Vulcans helped humans fight disease and hunger. In 2150 humans created a United Earth Government that combined all the old governments into one.

A war between Earth and the Romulans made species from different planets work together, and the Coalition of Planets was started in 2156. In 2161, the planets Vulcan, Earth, Andoria and Tellar started the United Federation of Planets.

"" is sometimes abbreviated to TOS. In it, the Starship Enterprise travels through space to discover new places - "to boldly go where no man has gone before". The show was set in the 23rd century.

The main characters are:

It was shown on television for three years. It was cancelled in 1969.

"" is also called "TAS". It is an animated version of "The Original Series". The crew are the same, and most are voice-acted by the same actors. Because it was animated, the planets and species could look more interesting.

Gene Roddenberry asked for the stories in "TAS" to be removed from "Star Trek"'s canon (the official history of "Star Trek" that is the same in all series). It is still argued about if they are part of canon or not, but usually agreed that they are not. The official Star Trek website has added some things from "TAS" to their library.

"" is also called "TNG". It is set 70 years after "The Original Series", in the 24th century. The crew travel on a new starship called the "Enterprise-D". The stories are also about exploring, and often about fighting hostile (violent or angry) ships. The crew has many different races.

The main characters are:

It was shown on television for seven seasons, from 1987 to 1994.

"" is also sometimes called "DS9". It is set in the late 24th century, at the end of "The Next Generation"'s time line and the start of Voyager's. It is not like "TOS" and "TNG" because it is set on a space station and is not about exploring. This means it has more soap opera elements (lots of stories about the characters). Most of the stories are about the Cardassian race and the war with the Dominion.

The main characters are:

It was shown on television for seven seasons, from 1993 to 1999.

"" is set in the late 24th century. It is different from the other series because it takes place in the Delta Quadrant. The ship Voyager was trapped there after a chase by the Maquis (Starfleet rebels). The stories are about them trying to find their way home. This is a long journey, and will take them 75 years.

The main characters are:

It was shown on television for seven seasons, from 1995 to 2001. It was made to help start a new television channel, UPN.

"" is set in the 22nd century, which means it is before all the other series on the "Star Trek" timeline. It is about the humans and the Vulcans working together after first contact. The ship, Enterprise, was the first Warp 5 ship made by the humans (with some Vulcan assistance). The first season famously had many continuity errors (events and technology that did not match what happens in the other series).

The main characters are:

It was shown on television for four seasons, from 2001 to 2005.

"Star Trek: Discovery" is the newest "Star Trek" series. It is set in the 23rd century, ten years before the original "Star Trek" series. The first season is about a war between the Federation and the Klingons.

The main characters of the first season are:

The first season was streamed online starting in 2017 on CBS' online streaming service in the United States, and on Netflix outside of the United States. There will be another season premiering in late 2018.

Since Discovery was added here, other series have been produced and released. In no particular order, they are:

The "Star Trek" franchise is a multibillion-dollar industry (a very large business). It has influenced (affected) many things in real life.

"Star Trek" has a large following of fans who are very enthusiastic (care a great deal) about the show. They are usually called Trekkies. The word was first used by Arthur W. Saha when he saw people wearing fake Vulcan ears at a convention (an event where lots of people interested in the same thing organise to meet) in 1967. Some fans like to be known as Trekkers instead.

Two documentaries (factual television shows) have been made about them, called "Trekkies" and "Trekkies 2".

In 1976, NASA made a prototype (test) space shuttle. It was first going to be called "Constitution", but Star Trek fans wrote letters to NASA asking for it to be called "Enterprise" instead. "Enterprise" was used for flight tests, although it was never sent into space. It is now displayed (put on show) at the Smithsonian Institution.

The movie "Galaxy Quest" is a "Star Trek" parody, which means it was made to be like "Star Trek" in a funny way.

There have been parodies on television in the cartoons "Futurama", "The Simpsons" and "Family Guy".

The video games company Blizzard Entertainment puts references to "Star Trek" in many of its games, like "Starcraft" and "World of Warcraft".

Fans of the show made a new episode, "Pilgrim of Eternity", in 2013. The crew were also professional film and TV people.

"Star Trek" episodes often tell a moral story. philosophical and moral questions are common. In the "Star Trek: Voyager" episode "Tuvix", a transporter accident puts two characters, Tuvok and Neelix, into one body. This makes a new person, Tuvix, who has his own personality. The crew of the Voyager must decide what to do: they can kill Tuvix by separating him back into Tuvok and Neelix, or they can kill Tuvok and Neelix by letting Tuvix live. In the end, Captain Janeway decides to save Tuvok and Neelix, although the Doctor thinks this is wrong.

"Star Trek" episodes also often reflect (copy) what is happening in the real world. One example is the episode "A Private Little War" in "Star Trek: The Original Series". This is said to be like the Vietnam War. In the episode, the Klingons threaten innocent people. Captain Kirk has to decide whether to give the people guns so that they can defend themselves. The episode asks whether you can fight evil without doing evil yourself.

One focus of all the "Star Trek" franchises is a Federation law called "The Prime Directive." The Prime Directive states that advanced civilizations should not change more primitive ones; societies should be allowed to develop on their own. The Prime Directive often makes for a moral conflict—for example, the Prime Directive might forbid using advanced technology to save an intelligent race.


Tunnel

A tunnel is an underground passage. Some tunnels are used for cars, and others are used for trains. Sometimes, a tunnel is used for movement of ships. Some tunnels are built for communication cables and some are built for electricity cables. Other tunnels are built for animals.

Tunnels are dug in different kinds of grounds, from soft sand to hard rock. The way of digging is chosen by the type of ground. There are two additional ways of digging : quarry and 'cut and cover'. In quarry, the tunnel path is drilled in a horizontal way.
This system requires a deep tunnel that's built in a firm rock. In the 'cut and cover' system, a tunnel is dug in the ground and, afterwards, a roof is built above the tunnel. This system fits tunnels that are close to the ground like road tunnels and infrastructure.

Building tunnels is a large civil engineering project that could cost very high sums of money. The planning and building of a long tunnel may take many years.

The Channel Tunnel between France and England is one of the longest tunnels in the world. It is 50 kilometers long. The longest tunnel in the world, the "Gotthard Base Tunnel", is being dug in Switzerland.


Cut-and-cover is a simple way of making hollow tunnels where a trench is hollowed out and roofed over with an overhead support system strong enough to carry the load of what is to be built above the tunnel.
Two basic forms of cut-and-cover tunneling are available:


The Salvation Army

The Salvation Army is a Protestant Christian organization William and Catherine Booth founded it in the East End of London, England in 1865. It was called the Christian Mission to start with, but in 1878, the name was changed. The Booths came from a Methodist tradition, but today the teachings of the movement are mainstream Protestant. They focus on preaching, and on helping those in need. They also actively help in disaster relief.

The Salvation Army operates in over 100 countries today. Its members devote themselves to teaching Christian morals, helping those in need, like the homeless, the sick, the poor, and others. It operates facilities like shelters, , orphanages, , and a , and offers Sunday church services. It is one of the largest charitable organisations in the world, which means that it relies on people to give it money to use.


People from the Swiss branch of the Salvation army qualified for the Eurovision Song Contest, 2013 in Malmö. At first, they were refused at the ESC. They could participate, but they had to change their name (to Takasa), and they also had to agree not to wear the typical uniforms on stage. They didn't qualify for the final round, though.

Orphanage

An orphanage is an institution that takes in and cares for orphans. It can also mean the state of being an orphan.

Historically it was very often the church or the state who cared for orphans. Children in orphanages may have suffered from child abuse or trauma from their parents.


London Underground

The London Underground is a form of public transport in London. It is a rapid transit system that uses electric trains. It is the oldest underground railway in the world. It started running in 1863 as the "Metropolitan Railway". After the opening the system was copied in many other cities, for example New York and Madrid. Even though it is called "the Underground" about half of it is above the ground. The "Tube" is a slang name for the London Underground, because the tunnels for some of the lines are round tubes running through the ground. The Underground serves 270 stations and over 408 km of track. From 2006 to 2007 over 1 billion passengers used the underground.

Underground train systems in other cities may be called "metros" (like the Tyne and Wear Metro in North East England) or "subways" (Glasgow Subway in Scotland and in most of North America). "Subway" is also used across Britain to refer to underground walkways.

The Metropolitan Line was the first part of the Underground to be made. It was opened in 1863. It then ran between Paddington and Farringdon. It took 40,000 passengers per day. Later it was made longer. The District Line was built by a different company. In 1884, the Circle Line was finished. All these lines used steam engines at first.

In 1890, a line using electric trains was opened. It was much deeper below ground than the other lines. Now it is part of the Northern Line. More lines like this were opened. People liked them, so in 1905 the lines that used steam engines were changed to use electric trains.

Because the different lines were run by different companies, changing lines was difficult. Between 1900 and 1902, Charles Yerkes bought most of the companies and formed a company named Underground Electric Railways of London Company Ltd, short UERL.

In 1933, a company was formed of all the bus, tram and underground companies, called London Passenger Transport Board (LPTB). It planned to make the network longer, but the Second World War stopped this. In the war, some Underground stations were used as shelters against bombs.

After the war more passengers used the underground. Minor changes were made: Victoria Line was opened in the 1960s, and currently the Piccadilly Line was extended to Heathrow Airport in 1977. The Jubilee Line was opened in 1979, and extended to Stratford 20 years later. Night Tube was introduced in 2016.

The system uses two kinds of trains, a big type - called sub surface trains and a smaller type - deep level trains. The big ones are used for the rectangular tunnels (District Line, Metropolitan Line, Circle Line), the small ones for the round tunnels. Most lines have different trains, although they fit into one of the two categories.

The Underground's trains usually drive to 270 stations. 14 Stations are outside of London.

The Underground uses zones to collect fares. There are 9 zones. Zone 1 is the most central zone. The only London Underground stations in Zones 7 to 9 are on the Metropolitan line beyond Moor Park, outside Greater London. Some stations are in two zones, and the cheapest fare applies.

Paper tickets or the contactless Oyster card can be used for travel. The Oyster Card is a plastic card which stores credit (money and Travelcards) which the owner uses to pay for Underground travel. The user must "charge" (put money onto) their card at a ticket machine. They then touch the card on a yellow reader to pay for their journey. Since its introduction in 2002 it has become very popular with regular travelers, as the prices are much cheaper if you use an Oyster card.

There are ticket offices, some open only in the rush-hour, and ticket machines, which can be used at any time. Some machines take coins only, other touch-screen machines take coins and English notes, and usually give change. These machines also take credit and debit cards: some newer machines accept cards only.

The following tickets are available from London Underground and TfL ticket offices to use on the Underground:

When most of the stations in the London Underground system were built, disabled and wheelchair access was not considered. While many above-ground stations have only a few steps to the platform, nearly all Underground stations have some of the systems's 410 escalators and 112 lifts (elevators). Newer stations include disabled access, and many older stations install disabled access when they are refurbished or rebuilt. Since 2004, maps inside the trains show which stations have step-free access from street level. Transport for London plan to have a network of over 100 fully accessible stations by 2020, which means that 75% of Tube journeys can be made with step-free access.

The escalators in the London Underground system are some of the longest in Europe. They run 20 hours a day, 364 days a year and are used by 13,000 people per hour, with 95% of them running at one time.

There have been relatively few accidents in the Underground's history. Most happen if people accidentally fall onto the tracks. In some stations there are pits in the middle of the track to stop people being injured if they fall onto the track. Newly rebuilt parts of the system, especially on the Jubilee line, have platform doors. These doors only open when a train stops and prevent people falling or jumping onto the tracks.

The below-ground Jubilee Line extension (Westminster to North Greenwich) stations have sliding platform doors installed to prevent people falling off the platform onto the tracks, and discourage/prevent suicides.

In the 1930s, 1970s and 1990s, the Underground was bombed many times by the IRA, and for this reason there have been no wastebins in or around stations until very recently, when clear plastic sacks were introduced in some parts of the system. On 7 July 2005, there were three attacks by radical Islamic terrorists on two Circle Line trains and on one Piccadilly Line.

Smoking is not allowed in any part of the underground. It was banned after a fire in King's Cross Station in 1987.

The commuters of London often complain about the Underground. Even newspapers, especially the Evening Standard, often criticise the system.

Usually the complaints are about delays, overcrowding and the fares. Sometimes strikes of London Underground staff occur.

London Underground fares are now the most expensive of any rail system around the world, including the luxurious Orient Express, and they continue to rise at very high levels. Concern has also been raised over the huge difference between oyster card fares and cash fares, with the criticism that the high cash fares will discourage tourists and day visitors to London from traveling around the city.

Because the underground is a very old system, engineering work is often needed and often causes delays. There can be other reasons as well, for example signal failures or other breakdowns. Customers can claim a refund if their tube journey is delayed for more than 15 minutes due to problems within the control of Transport For London.

Because many more commuters use the underground than planned, overcrowding often happens. This can cause stress and frustration with the underground system among commuters. According to a report by MPs, commuters face "a daily trauma" and are often forced to travel in "intolerable conditions".

Because so many passengers travel on the London Underground network every day, strikes or industrial actions on the Underground network have a very high impact on London's traffic and can impact on London's economy. London Underground and the rail unions claim to be under high pressure from the working public, private businesses and government departments.

Strike actions on the London Underground occur for a number of reasons, including health and safety, working conditions and pay levels. There were several such strikes in the late 1970s.


Democracy Now!

Democracy Now! is a radio and TV program. It is entirely paid for through donations from listeners, viewers, and foundations and does not accept advertisers, corporate underwriting, or government funding. It is one of the biggest independent news organizations in the United States.


Socialist Party (England and Wales)

The Socialist Party is a Trotskyist political party active in England and Wales and part of the Committee for a Workers' International. They publish a weekly newspaper entitled "The Socialist" and a monthly "Socialism Today". As an organisation, it has evolved from the Militant Tendency, who in the early 1980s started to be expelled from the Labour Party, for organising a mass campaign against the Poll Tax.

There was a debate with the Militant Tendency whether or not to cease working within the Labour Party and the majority of the group decided to leave, although a minority around Ted Grant broke away to form Socialist Appeal. This debate ran alongside a parallel debate on the future of Scottish politics. The result was that the experiment of operating as an "open party" was first undertaken in Scotland under the name of Scottish Militant Labour. This would eventually lead to the foundation of the Scottish Socialist Alliance. The majority of Scottish members, after forming the Scottish Socialist Party, left the Committee for a Workers' International in early 2001 as they moved away from traditional Trotskyist politics.

For a while, the party was known as "Militant Labour". In 1997, the group changed its name to the Socialist Party, but the ownership of this name has been contested by the much older Socialist Party of Great Britain. As a result, the new party is frequently known as "The Socialist Party of England and Wales". In elections, it has had to use the name "Socialist Alternative". They were one of the founders of the local Socialist Alliance groups, but they left in 2001.

Since leaving the Socialist Alliance, the Socialist Party has run candidates in elections as "Socialist Alternative". Following the UK local elections in 2006, it had three councillors in Coventry, one in Stoke, two in Lewisham, South London and one in Huddersfield. In February 2005, the Socialist Party announced plans to contest the 2005 parliamentary elections as part of a new electoral alliance called the Socialist Green Unity Coalition. Several former components of the Socialist Alliance that did not join Respect also joined this coalition.

The Socialist Party is a smaller organisation than the Militant of the 1980s, but has influence in some trade unions. In 2005, 23 Socialist Party members were elected members of trade union national executive committees. Under the leadership of Peter Taaffe, their policies have remained close to the Trotskyist mainstream. Their demand for the nationalisation of the one hundred and fifty top British companies and their longstanding practice of running in elections has led some critics to label them as reformists though the party insists that their method is based on Trotsky's Transitional Programme.

The Socialist Party is affiliated to the Committee for a Workers International, and is the largest of its forty members. The party participates also in the broader European Anticapitalist Left.

In November 2005 at its annual 'Socialism' event, the Socialist Party formally launched the 'Campaign for a New Workers' Party' with the aim of persuading individuals, campaigners and trade unions to help set up and back a new broad left alternative to New Labour that would fight for working class people. The National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers (RMT union) held a conference in January 2006 to address what it calls 'The crisis in working class representation', in which Dave Nellist was invited to speak. Most of the speakers were in favour of a broad left alternative to New Labour. The remaining speakers, such as MP John McDonnell, wished it well.


Socialist teachers

Socialist Teachers are a group of members of the Socialist Party (England and Wales) in the National Union of Teachers(NUT).

It is associated with CNWP teachers and its members work with other socialists and trade union activists in the STA (Socialist Teachers' Alliance) and CDFU (Campaign for a Democratic and Fighting Union).

Socialist Party teacher Martin Powell-Davies stood for the general secretary of the NUT in 2004 and polled 6,482 first-preference votes.


National Union of Teachers

The National Union of Teachers was the largest teachers' union in the United Kingdom. It has a policy of campaigning on educational issues as well as the conditions of service of its members.

In 2017 it joined with the Association of Teachers and Lecturers to form the National Education Union.


Socialist Party

Socialist Party is the name of several different political parties around the world with a variety of different political views. These include:



