Bamboo


Bamboo is a name for over 1,400 species of giant grasses in 115 different genera. All bamboos have wood-like stems. Bamboo mainly grows in Africa, America and in Asia but can easily grow in Europe.

Bamboo grows in clumps (although running varieties exist). The runners can be up to 40 metres (130 feet). David Farrelly, in his book "The Book of Bamboo", says that bamboo has been measured to grow 1.21 meters (47.6 inches) in a 24-hour period. However, most bamboos (used for gardening) will grow more like 3 cm to 5 cm (1-2 inches) a day.

Almost all species of bamboo have hollow stems divided into nodes or joints. The stem can be up to 30 cm (a foot) in diameter. Each of the nodes has one side bud. Not all of those buds develop into branches, but some do. This makes bamboo one of the few grasses that have a branch structure. Bamboo rarely flowers. Some species only flower once, and then die off. The distance of two joints in a bamboo is the basis of a traditional Japanese unit of measurement, "shaku".

Bamboo is used to make lots of things and is a construction material. The stems of larger trees are used to build houses, bridges, and other things that have to be constructed such as boat and wickerwork. It can be used for scaffolding. Bamboo is an easy construction material and not expensive.

Bamboo is almost the only food of giant pandas. The shoots can also be used as human food. Bamboo shoots are usually cooked before being eaten. Most temperate bamboos can be eaten without cooking if they are not too bitter.
As some may contain cyanogens, cooking is better. The only "Phyllostachys" known to have potentially toxic concentrations of cyanogens is "Ph. heterocycla pubescens".

Trojan War

The Trojan War was one of the most important wars in the history of Ancient Greece. It happened between the Trojans and the Greeks. It is mostly known through the "Iliad," an epic poem written by the Ancient Greek poet Homer.
In the middle 19th century scholars thought Troy and the war were mythical; that they never existed. However, Heinrich Schliemann discovered the site of ancient Troy, across the Aegean Sea on Asia Minor. The war may have taken place in the 12th century BC.

The Bronze Age was the first era known for humans to create tools and weapons made out of metal. Previously they had used stone tools. Beginning in about 3,300 B.C throughout the Middle East and parts of Asia, humans made many technical advances. Bronze Age civilizations interconnected through trade, war, migration, and innovation. However, the age ended quickly in the Bronze Age collapse after 1200 B.C., when many civilizations fell at once. 

One of the most well known ancient civilizations to fall was the city of Troy. Branching off of the Mycenaean civilization and located in Histarlik, the northeast coast of Turkey, this ancient city dates back to over 2,700 years ago. Believed to be inhabited for almost 4,000 years beginning in 3,000 B.C., this civilization developed grand palaces by building on top of one city after another was destroyed. This formed into a human-made mound called a “tell”. Gert Jan van Wingaarden, in his book “Troy: City, Homer and Turkey,” writes, “ There is no one single Troy, there are at least 10, lying in layers on top of each other.” He says that the city of Troy contains many layers which is why archeological excavators have yet to reach the remains of the first settlement. Along with enhancing their city the Trojans developed their own writing system and occupied the Dardanelles, a narrow water channel connecting the Aegean Sea to the Black Sea. The writing system and water channel advanced the city of Troy into a powerful civilization which allowed for many allies to be made but also an arising rivalry.  

According to Homer’s story, "Iliad", the civilization was doomed to fall as long as the Trojan King’s son, Alexander, remained alive due to a curse placed upon him at birth by Zeus. The story of the Trojan war  concludes to why such an advanced and powerful civilization like Troy was able to be completely destroyed. 

The origins of the war (in the "Iliad") started at the wedding of King Peleus and the nereid (sea-nymph) Thetis. They had invited almost all the gods to their wedding. But they did not invite Eris, goddess of strife. She was angry and she threw a golden apple among the guests on which was written "To the Fairest". The goddesses Hera, Athena, and Aphrodite caught the apple at the same time and fought over who was the most beautiful. Because they could not end the fight by themselves, they went to Zeus, the king of the gods. Zeus chose Paris to decide, and give the apple to who he wanted. Each of the three goddesses offered Paris gifts so he would choose her. Hera offered Paris all of Asia. Athena offered wisdom.

Then Aphrodite offered him the love of the most beautiful woman. Paris gave the apple to Aphrodite. Of course, Aphrodite had not thought about the fact that the most beautiful woman, Helen, Queen of Sparta, already had a husband (King Menelaus of Sparta). But Aphrodite had her son, Eros, shoot Helen with a golden arrow so she fell in love with Paris. They left for Troy. Menelaus, Helen's husband, declared war on Troy to retrieve his queen, now called Helen of Troy. This began the Trojan war.

Greek gods play a large role in the myth of how the Trojan War was started. The reason gods were introduced to the Greek culture was to serve as an answer to the origin of man, as well as to offer authority figures that could be summoned when the Greek needed help. The Greek gods were believed to have a divine presence and were worshipped by many. They were an important aspect of Greek culture that flowed over into literature, art, and other topics. Many of Homer’s works include the involvement of Greek gods and goddesses. The gods that are seen throughout Homer’s works are immortal and they hold a lot of power. They have the power to know just about everything and are the highest in authority without any other power above them. The greatest of the gods is the family in which Zeus is the father. Throughout the majority of Homer’s writings, Zeus is so supreme that he is used to represent the collective power of gods and Zeus is so commonly mentioned. This is why in the origin of the Trojan War, the gods go to Zeus for resolutions of conflict. Unlike some works of writing and some cultures, the gods throughout Homer’s work have no relation to religion but are rather their own separate thing.

The war went on for ten years swinging to one side and then the other. Some of the leading fighters were Achilles, Paris, and Hector. The Greeks won by building a big wooden horse, which we now call the Trojan Horse. Greek soldiers hid inside the horse, and others put the horse on the shore and left in their boats. The Trojans saw the horse and thought that the Greeks had given up and left. They thought the horse was a gift in their honour. They dragged the horse into Troy and celebrated their victory. When night fell, the Greeks hiding inside the horse opened the city gates and set fire to the houses. The Greeks who had left in their boats had just pretended to leave, to trick the Trojans. They returned and won the war. The trick was thought up by Odysseus, King of the small island of Ithaca.

There are many versions to the story of the Trojan War. Two of the most famous of these stories are Homer’s poetry about this war in his books, the Iliad and the Odyssey. Full of exaggerations, distortions, contradictions, and pure fictions, these two books do not give a clear indication whether or not the Trojan war actually occurred. Homer wrote these stories based on the oral tradition of storytelling. Oral tradition has a tendency to not contain precise memories and can morph into different claims based on different cultural influences and intentions. For example, the Iliad is shown to have many similar aspects to characters and wars originating from stories throughout the Hellenic world, like the duel between Lycian Sapedon and Rhodian. These similarities in stories are not originally connected with Troy. This creates fundamental distortion which contains three principles. First, a heroic tradition may be constructed to seem as an event that holds more significance than it truly does. In Herodotus’s version of the Trojan War, he says “his narrative is presented as belonging to the realm of ‘what is said’ rather than ‘what is known.” He tries to present a credible source of the story by eliminating the gods by making Helen be the daughter of a human, Tyndareus, rather than the daughter of a god. He also makes Alexander (Paris) not judge on the beauty of the three goddesses and become convinced by Aphrodite’s promise to marry Helen. Instead, he steals Helen. He does this because humans decide on their own what is and is not credible about ancient civilizations. He knew the popular opinion would be that people do not see supernatural as credible but instead as fiction. Secondly, tradition may be picked up by regions and people who have no relation to the event. For example, different civilizations would use the information as “propagandistic purposes” to make their civilization look heroic or enemy civilizations remain monstrous. The process of passing down stories through word of mouth as the only source leads to inevitable change to the truth in the story through the different cultural influences of those telling the story. For example, if the Spartans were telling their perspective of the Trojan war compared to the Trojans, then the two stories will most likely be very different. Thirdly, the traditions may become distorted in time including the original main idea so that it is not recognizable from the rest of the evidence. This means that there most likely was a Trojan war. However, the war was not the same as what Homer states. The story is known to be part of "spatium" "histoicum" which is the clear belonging of a deep past in which accurate knowledge is difficult to obtain. For example, there is also no written evidence to validate the Trojan war and archeologists can not yet provide evidence of who attacked Troy. This makes the storyline much easier to change and is why many researchers believe the Trojan war stories are about war with enemies created as a result of a copper shortage in Greece. At the time, the Trojans were the only ones that would have access to the copper supply in the Back Sea. Overall, these variations in the story of the Trojan war are not reliable sources to aid figuring out whether the Trojan war happened or not; however, they help give an understanding of the cultural background and intentions of the people during this era.

There is no evidence proving the Trojan War did occur. If the Trojan War did occur, Hisarlik was most likely the site. Hisarlik consists of an ordinary low lying mound with some bits of broken pavement, building foundations, and walls. Visitors who visit Hisarlik can see a large wooden horse, built in more recent years, that serves as an aid in convincing individuals Hisarlik is the true site of Homer’s Troy. The origin of how the Trojan War was started lies in Homer’s poem, the Iliad. 

Hiller, the author of "Two Trojan Wars? On the destructions of Troy VI and VII" reminds us that our trust in a historical Trojan War is rooted in Homer. Homer is not a historian but, rather, a poet. Hiller also said that because Homer is a poet, part of his role in creating content is exaggerating for better effect, and therefore evidence in support of a Trojan War needs to be independent of Homer’s epic. It was extremely unlikely that a civilization would declare war and gather a fleet of hundreds of ships over a dispute of a woman, the original belief of the spark of conflict However, Bronze Age kings occasionally were willing to go to war over the abduction of one of their subjects, and even more so when that subject was a family member. Excavations were done. The first step in establishing the physical location of the war is to find a clearly identifiable location for the war. This has not been done, although, currently Hisarlik is seen as the most identifiable. Even so, Heinrich Schliemann favored other locations as the official site of Troy before settling on Hisarlik. Schliemann, perhaps the archaeologist most involved with the search of Troy, began excavations in Hisarlik in 1871. Because Troy is made of several settlements, another challenge was finding which of the layers were the most likely to match up with the war. Schliemann believed one of the earliest layers would have to be the site of Troy. Without much prior knowledge on excavation, Schliemann had his crew dig a trench through the site, which resulted in the destruction of several of the upper layers. 

The dwellings and what could be found on that level of the mound did not add up with Homer’s description with Troy, which then required excavation into the later layers. However, because Schliemann had destroyed most of the newer layers, there was only a little bit of the sixth settlement that survived, which does not provide for a large representation of the settlement. However, it was the sixth settlement that provided the best evidence of Troy’s existence. Pottery found on the site of Hisarlik showed that Troy VI most likely ended around the first of the thirteenth century. This sets the date for the war around 1250 BC, if the war and Troy were to coincide. The date of 1250 is in very close proximity to the date given by Herodotus, a Greek historian and as well as given by other Classical Greek sources. This level also represented a peak period of the layers, once again supporting the idea that it truly was the site of the Trojan War. However, even with these pieces of evidence, the similar accounts between Homer’s Troy and Hisarlik are still generally slight and do not show any significant evidence. Another indication that the Trojan War may have occurred is that the excavation of Troy VI provided evidence that signified violent destruction. However, yet again there is no way to be certain whether the destruction was caused by humans or the environment, or both.

Over the years, the story of the Trojan War has become an icon as an action-packed TV show like "Troy: Fall of a City" as well as a binge worthy fictional novel like "Daughter of Troy" by Dave Duncan. In order for creators to make these films and books portray as authentic, they add archeological information to aid the culture, history, clothing and supplies used to relate to the ancient civilization. Some examples include bronze blades and weapons which were artifacts introduced within the Bronze Age, a walled city to portray the structure of the ancient cities within Greece, and the incorporation of the references to the Greek gods and goddesses watching every action they make to show their cultural beliefs. The incorporation of archeological information within pop culture is very relevant and an important aspect to making any type of film, image or novel a success.

These are stories, books, movies, etc., that are about the Trojan War, or tell parts of its story:


Cruise ship

A cruise ship (or cruise liner or ocean liner, though the latter mainly refers to large vessels designed for mass leisure travel which cross the ocean) is a large ship with sleeping cabins and other facilities that takes people on holiday and vacation trips. Hundreds of thousands of people take cruises each year.

Today's cruise ships are like floating hotels. They have a complete "hospitality staff" (to serve food and help passengers in other ways) as well as the usual ship's crew. The largest cruise ships have casinos, shops, many restaurants, theaters for both live entertainment and movies, several pools, day care, a gym, and a running track. The most expensive cruises often have more crew and staff than passengers. This means that the people who control the cruise can give many personal services.

Today, hundreds of cruise ships sail all over the world. Some carry over 3,000 passengers. These are some of the largest ships ever built. For some places, such as Antarctica, because it lacks other methods of regular transport, cruise ships are one of the few ways for tourists to visit.
There's also cruise type vessels that have permanent residences. Like the World Ship and MS Utopia.

Windows Media Player

Windows Media Player is a digital media player made by Microsoft. It is already installed on Microsoft Windows operating systems, and an older version is available for some Apple Macintosh operating systems. The program allows people to watch certain video files and play music files that are in a compatible file format. How the program looks can also be changed with skins, and it can be made small enough to fit on the taskbar.


Listen Up

Listen Up! was a 2004 CBS television series. It was a sitcom starring Jason Alexander as Tony Kleinman, a sportscaster from the fictional ""Listen Up!"" His cohost is named Bernie, and is a hall of famer. Jason has a wife, Dana, and two kids, one named Mickey. Mickey is very good at golf, but gets low grades.

The series only lasted for one season, 22 episodes.

Jurassic Park III

Jurassic Park III is a 2001 American movie and the third "Jurassic Park" movie. It follows "". Paul Kirby, who says he is a rich business owner, convinces Dr. Alan Grant and his assistant, Billy Brennan, to take him and his wife to Isla Sorna as a vacation and serve as a guide. Actually, Kirby and his wife want to search for their son, who was stranded on Isla Sorna while on a parasailing trip. After crashing on the island, they are attacked by a Spinosaurus, who kills several members of their party. After escaping, the remaining people start hiking for the coast, fighting many dinosaurs, including the Spinosaurus, along the way.

"Jurassic Park III" is followed by "Jurassic World".


Laura Dern

Laura Elizabeth Dern (born February 10, 1967) is an Academy Award-winning American actress. Born in Los Angeles, she is the daughter of Bruce Dern and Diane Ladd. 

She received an Oscar and Golden Globe Award for her performance as Rose in "Rambling Rose". For the HBO film "Afterburn", she received an Emmy Award nomination and a Golden Globe Award. She has also won Independent Spirit Awards for "Blue Velvet" and "Smooth Talk". She is perhaps most famous for playing Dr. Ellie Sattler in "Jurassic Park". She used to date Jeff Goldblum. In 2020, she won another Oscar for her role in "Marriage Story".


Trailer (movie)

A movie trailer (also called a preview or coming attraction) is a short showing of a future (not yet released) movie. They are shown in a theater before the current movie starts. They are often later shown in advertisements for DVD releases, and broadcasts of the movie on television.

Michael Crichton

Michael Crichton (October 23, 1942 – November 4, 2008) was an American author of many books. His books were usually in the science fiction, medical fiction, and thriller genres. He was also a producer, director, and doctor.

Crichton is well known for writing novels that later became well-known Hollywood movies. His most famous work was "Jurassic Park." Other examples of Crichton's novels that later went on to become big-budget films include Congo, The Lost World, Rising Sun, and Sphere.

Crichton has also created the "ER" television show.

Crichton was born in Chicago, Illinois. He was 69" tall. He was married five times. He had a daughter from his fourth marriage.

On November 4, 2008, he died of throat cancer and lymphoma in Los Angeles, California, aged 66. He was looked down on by some as a climate change denier In February 2009, his widow gave birth to his only, posthumous son, John Michael Todd Crichton.


Andreas Baader

Andreas Bernd Baader (6 May 1943-18 October 1977) was a German terrorist.

He was born in Munich and was one of the first leaders of the Red Army Faction (RAF). It was often called the "Baader-Meinhof gang"

In 1968, Baader and his girlfriend Gudrun Ensslin were convicted of the setting fire to a department store in Frankfurt am Main.

They were arrested and sent to jail, but Baader escaped. He was caught in April 1970, but in May 1970, he was allowed to go a library outside the prison. Journalist Ulrike Meinhof and two other women were allowed to join him. They let a masked man into the library who fired shots at a 64-year-old librarian. Baader, the three women and the masked man fled through a window, and the group soon became known as the "Baader-Meinhof Gang".

Baader and others then spent some time in a Palestinian military training camp in Jordan before being thrown out. Back in Germany, Baader robbed banks and bombed buildings from 1970 to 1972. On 1 June 1972, he and fellow RAF members Jan-Carl Raspe and Holger Meins were caught after a gunfight in Frankfurt.

Meins died during a hunger strike in Stammheim Prison, Stuttgart, in 1974. This was when philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre visited Baader. He described Baader as "incredibly stupid" and "an asshole".

From 1975 to 1977, there was a long and expensive trial in a specially fortified building on the grounds of Stammheim. Their jailers said Baader and the others kept their cells as dirty and disgusting as possible in stop searches for things that might be smuggled in; at this time lawyers and defendants were not separated by panes of glass during unsupervised meetings.

Meinhof was found dead in her cell in Stammheim on 9 May 1976, hanging from the ceiling. RAF members and others claimed that she was killed by the German government. The so-called "second generation of the RAF" committed several kidnappings and murders in a campaign in support of the prisoners. The three remaining defendants were convicted in April 1977 of several murders, attempted murders, and of forming a terrorist organization, and were sentenced to life imprisonment.

Businessman Hanns Martin Schleyer was kidnapped in Cologne on 5 September 1977. Lufthansa Flight 181 was hijacked in mid-October to try to force the release of Baader and ten other RAF members.

After several weeks that were called "the German Autumn", the passengers of the aeroplane were freed in an assault carried out by German GSG 9 special forces in the early hours of 18 October 1977. On the same day, the RAF killed Schleyer in France.

Next morning, Andreas Baader and Jan-Carl Raspe were found in their prison cells, dead from gunshot wounds. Gudrun Ensslin was found hanging. RAF member Irmgard Möller was found with four stab wounds to her chest, but survived.

All the official inquiries said that Baader and the others two committed suicide. Möller insists that the deaths and her injury were extrajudicial executions.

In 2002, director Christopher Roth released a film about Baader titled "Baader".




