Nigger


Nigger is a racist insult against black people. It is also known as the "hard R", because the word ends in 'er' instead of 'a', as in the word "nigga". The word "nigga" is used in pop culture slang by black people. However, it is commonly used by those who believe that their people are better than black people.

The word came from a slang way to say "negro". That is the word for the color black and for black people in Spanish and Portuguese. Before 1865, most black people in the United States were slaves. During that time, the word "nigger" commonly meant a slave. Writers such as Joseph Conrad, Mark Twain, and Charles Dickens often used the word in their stories and their other writing.

However, in the late 20th century, the word was seen as a hurtful racial slur in English. It was called hate speech. "Nigger" was seen as very offensive to say or hear which caused many to not use the word at all. They instead called the word "The N-Word" or "The Hard-R". 

Later, the word started to become more popularized and less offensive to say since the "N-Word Pass" came to birth by Generation Z. More Non-African Americans started to say it. Since the "N-Word Pass" came to birth, the word has reemerged as a casual insult or in a "humorous" way by younger generations and is not seen as racist by the majority of youth.

Biography

A biography is the story of a person's life. The word comes from the Greek words "bios" (which means life) and "graphein" (which means write). When the biography is written by the person it is about, it is called an autobiography.

A written biography is a part of literature. Biographies can also be made as movies (often called biopics) or told as stories.

The oldest written biographies that historians have were written to record rulers' lives. Some were written in Assyria, ancient Babylonia, ancient Egypt and ancient Mesopotamia. Biographies were an early form of history. Another early form of biography was called "hagiography," meaning writing about holy people.

In ancient China, a biography was one of the basic forms of a history book. In India, biographies of Buddha and his reincarnated lives were written. In ancient Greece, people wrote biographies of people that were not rulers too. Xenophon wrote a biography of Socrates and gave this book the name "Memorabilia" (Memories). During the Roman Empire, Plutarch wrote "Parallel Lives" about ancient Greek and Roman politicians, and Suetonius wrote biographies of the Roman emperors. The Gospels were also biographies of Jesus Christ.

In West Africa, griots tell histories which often include biographies. 

Many written biographies today are released by publishers as products for sale.


Ralph Nader

Ralph Nader (born February 27, 1934) is an American attorney, politician and political activist. He is best known for working for the rights of consumers, for his third party runs for President of the United States, and for helping George Bush get elected in the 2000 presidential election. He ran for president in 1996, 2000 and 2004, but failed to win. In the 2008 election, Nader placed third overall, with 660,094 votes, or about .38%. Nader was born in Winsted, Connecticut. His parents, Nathra and Rose Nader, were Lebanese immigrants. He is a fluent and native speaker of the Arabic language.

Jamie Farr

Jamie Farr (born July 1, 1934) is an American actor of Lebanese descent. He is best known for his role as Corp./later Sgt. Maxwell Q. Klinger on the 1970s TV show, "M*A*S*H". His real name is Jameel Joseph Farha and he was born in Toledo, Ohio.

Farr also appeared in movies like "The Blackboard Jungle" (1955) and "The Cannonball Run" (1980), was a regular "celebrity judge" on "The Gong Show" and has a golf tournament named after him.

Free software

Free software is software (computer program) that anyone may run, share and change, at any time, for any reason. In this case, "free" means "freedom-respecting" (we say "free as in freedom"). The opposite of free software is proprietary software.

In 1984, Richard Stallman started the free software movement when he began the GNU project. Examples of free software are Linux (the kernel), Blender, OpenBSD, Inkscape and others. Wikipedia also uses free software.

Free software is very similar, but different from open source software.

People who use the name “free software” think that computers should be more ethical and should try to help people who use computers. They think every human should have four basic rights for their programs. These are the rights to:

The Free software movement also says that all software should be free (as in freedom). It is because even a very small program that is proprietary can be very dangerous (it can for example spy on the user).

People who use the name “open source” refer to the same software following the same rules, but the community isn't as strict and doesn't say that everything should be open source. They avoid the ethics and instead say the rules are good because they help companies make business.

An author who wants to make his computer program free must allow other people to use it for anything (which doesn't break the law), study it, change it and share it without limits. The author does this by using a free license.

The author must not prohibit even selling his program by others or using his program for dangerous things or using it by people he doesn't like. This is not because the author supports bad things, but because he thinks that limiting user's rights is dangerous for them.

The word “free” in “free software” means "freedom", not "price". People are allowed to sell Free software, but the person who buys the software can change it, give it away or sell it too. Free/Libre and Open-Source Software is sometimes abbreviated as FOSS or FLOSS to emphasize that it is about "free software", and not merely "freeware".

The words “free software” are sometimes used in English to just mean software that can be downloaded without paying money, which is confusing. Sometimes this software lets people make their own copies for other people, however it may not let people do all the things that they can do with real Free software, such as change it or sell it. In this case “free” means “free of charge”. To make the difference more clear, software that does not cost money should be called freeware; it is almost always proprietary software.



