Kuwait


Kuwait (Arabic: الكويت) is a small Arab country (about 17,819 square kilometers) in the Middle East.

Kuwait is the most socially progressive country in the Gulf region. It has a small and rich economy. It has about 96 billion barrels of crude oil reserves. Crude oil reserves are the oil that is still under the ground and has not yet been cleaned up. Kuwait has 10% of all of the oil reserves in the world. The country makes a lot of money by selling oil. This money is almost half of all the money the country makes. The oil money is also 95% of the money made by selling things to different countries (people call that exports). Also, the oil money is 80% of the money the government makes. Kuwait is now talking with oil companies of other countries to make oil fields in the northern part of the country.

Kuwait's weather makes farming hard (too little rain). Instead of farming, the country catches fish and buys food from other countries. About 75% of the country's water to drink has to be distilled (have the salt removed) or purchased from other countries.

In 1990, Iraq invaded (brought an army in to fight against) Kuwait. This started the first Gulf War. Kuwait's official religion is Islam, although 15% of its population are Christian or Hindu. Arabic is mostly spoken in Kuwait but English is widespread among Kuwaitis (residents of Kuwait). Kuwait is one of the few nations that has education for every age.

Another interesting fact about Kuwait is that a lot of people speak English.

As of 2023, Kuwait has a population of 4.82 million people of which 1.53 million are Kuwaiti citizens while the remaining 3.29 million are foreign nationals from over 100 countries. Of the total population of Kuwait, only 31% are Kuwaitis while around 69% are Non-Kuwaitis. Indians are the biggest Expat community in Kuwait making 21% of the population followed by Egyptians who are 13% of the population.
Population (in thousands) for 2004 2595. CBR(per 1000) for 2004 19.4. CDR (per 1000) for 2004 1.9. Growth Rate(%) for 1992-2002 2.1. the Total Fertility Rate for 2002 is 2.7. Percent population is living in urban in 2003 96.2.Per capita gross national income ($) 2002 612. Population Density( per square kilometer) in 2000 107.4
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1000)for 2005 9.95. Adult literacy rate (85%) female literacy rate (81%) (2002).

Kuwait is divided into 6 governorates. The governorates are divided into districts, And the establishment of the governorates of Kuwait dates back to the Emiri Decree No. 6 issued in 1962, which divided Kuwait into three governorates: the Capital Governorate, Hawalli Governorate and Al-Ahmadi Governorate. The decree clarified the work of the governor, his subordination of the governor to the Ministry of Interior, and his responsibility towards security, provided that the Ministry of Interior issues the necessary decisions to indicate the limits of the governor's jurisdiction. There have been some changes regarding the governorates of Kuwait, which we summarize as follows:

. On November 14, 1979: Some provisions of the administrative division decree were amended so that a fourth governorate, Al-Jahra Governorate, was added.

. On October 12, 1988: The first article of the article was amended to divide Kuwait into five governorates by adding Al-Farwaniyah Governorate.

. On November 27, 1999: Emiri Decree No. 290 was issued to add a sixth governorate, Mubarak Al-Kabeer Governorate.

Thus, Kuwait has become administratively divided into six governorates, each affiliated with several regions. Warba Island and Bubiyan Island belong to the Jahra Governorate, while the rest of the islands belong to the Capital Governorate.


Tiny Tim

Herbert Buckingham Khaury, better known as Tiny Tim (April 12, 1932 – November 30, 1996), was an American singer and musician. He became popular in the late 1960s due to his appearances on television, and songs played on ukulele with a falsetto voice. His most famous song was "Tiptoe Through the Tulips". His best-remembered television appearances were on "Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In" and "The Tonight Show". His first wedding took place on "The Tonight Show" in 1969, at host Johnny Carson's suggestion.

Tim was not just a performer, he was also an expert musicologist, who studied American music from the earliest days of the United States, and performed many historic songs in his act. Over time, he used his falsetto voice less, and performed most songs in his natural, baritone voice.

When his popularity as a pop star lessened, he performed in small nightclubs and other places, as he had earlier. During the 1980s, he toured with a circus, and appeared in a movie as a circus performer who turned to crime. In the 1990s, he recorded new music (including a Christmas album), and joined comedian Pat Paulsen in his latest mock campaign to become President of the United States, as Paulsen's running mate.

Married three times, his last wife was a former fan, who met him when she made a documentary about his life and career. One of his later supporters was radio talk show host Howard Stern. Tiny Tim died in 1996, after suffering a heart attack during a performance.

Kelvin

The Kelvin scale (symbol: K) is the SI unit of temperature. It is named in honour of the physicist William Thomson, the first Lord Kelvin (1824–1907).
0 degree Celsius = 273 kelvin

The Kelvin scale is defined by a specific relationship between the pressure of a gas and the temperature. This says that "the pressure of the gas is directly proportional to the temperature in Kelvin". This means that Kelvin is an absolute temperature scale, and scientists use this scale more than any other.

The kelvin is a base SI unit of measurement, since 2018 defined by setting the fixed numerical value of the Boltzmann constant "k" to 1.380649×10 J⋅K.

The temperature of the triple point of water is a hundredth of a degree Celsius above the freezing point, or 0.01 °C. The coldest possible temperature is called absolute zero and is equal to -273.15 degrees Celsius, or zero kelvin (0 K). By writing temperatures in kelvins one does not need to use negative numbers.

The absolute temperature scale was designed so that a change in temperature of 1 kelvin is equal to a change of 1 degree Celsius. This means that it is easy to convert a temperature from degrees Celsius to kelvin.

It is important to notice that the name of this unit is simply "kelvin" (with a lowercase initial), not "degree Kelvin". In English, it undergoes normal plural inflection as "kelvins". For example, the boiling point of liquid nitrogen is 77 kelvins.

In everyday use, the kelvin is most commonly used to measure very low or very high temperatures, such as the temperature of liquid nitrogen or the temperature of a light bulb filament.


Tourism

Tourism means people traveling for fun and adventure . It includes activities such as sightseeing and camping. People who travel for fun are called "tourists". Places where many tourists stay are sometimes called "resorts". Places that people go to for tourism are called tourist destinations.

There are many reasons why people travel for fun:

The tourism industry has different parts. Some of these are:

Package tour operators can offer all these services to a group who will go together. This can be cheaper than paying for them separately.

Tourism can bring damage to the local area, and/or the tourists. Litter, scuba-diving and deforestation are problems for popular places such as St. Lucia, Hawaii and others. Scuba-diving can damage coral reefs which are home to hundreds of species of sea animals. Tourism can change culture when people learn each other's ways, and certain local traditions are being put aside for tourists.



