Drug


According to the WHO, a drug is a substance that can change how a living organism works. Food is usually not seen as a drug, even though some foods may have such properties. Most of the time drugs are taken to treat a disease, or other medical condition. An example for such drugs may be Aspirin or Paracetamol. These are usually given to treat fever, as well as certain infections. If such drugs are taken over a longer time, they are usually prescribed by a doctor. Other drugs are taken for fun, because of the effect they have. Some of these drugs taken for fun are better accepted by society than others. Having or taking certain drugs may be illegal, in certain countries.

Drugs that are taken to treat a disease or condition are usually called "therapeutic", drugs that are taken for fun are called "recreational" drugs.

Drugs may have other effects than those wanted. Such effects are generally known as side-effects.

Drugs act differently in different amounts. It is therefore important to take the right amount. The amount of the drug taken is called a dose. Aspirin is often prescribed against fever, or as an analgesic. One of the side-effects of Aspirin is that it makes the blood thinner. For this reason, it can also be used to prevent strokes, or heart attacks - in a much lower dose than the one used to treat fever, though.

Taking too much of a drug ("too high a dose") can cause sickness or even death. When a doctor says how much of a drug (the right dose) to take, only that amount should be taken. It is very important to keep taking the drug until the doctor says to stop because someone can feel better but still be sick. When a doctor says what drug to take, how much of it, and for how long, it is called a prescription. Drugs may cause addiction. Some drugs are illegal because they are very addictive. These drugs are really expensive, too. It can also be sold illegally from drug sellers which may cause serious results

Recreational drugs can sometimes be bad for someone's health even if they make them feel good. Alcohol can also be dangerous if the person drinking it drives a vehicle after drinking. This is called drunk driving. Many countries make this against the law. Common recreational drugs include:


Certain recreational drugs also have uses as a therapeutic drug. Heroin can be used as an analgesic (a painkiller) and methamphetamine is used to treat narcolepsy or ADHD. Recreational drugs can be dangerous, certain countries have made it illegal to have or take them outside a medical context. Most of the time, this is because they can be addictive or that they are very dangerous when combined with other drugs. That way, Cannabis-based products are legal in the Netherlands, but illegal in many other countries.

Alcohol and Nicotine are legal almost everywhere, but there are a lot of taxes on the sale of these. In other words, they are expensive to buy. Being expensive to buy because of taxes has two benefits; one is that the taxes collected from the sale of the drugs goes into helping to pay for assistance the drug user may experience later. A smoker, for example, may develop cancer later in life and need treatment at a place that is granted a certain amount of tax money from the government to keep it operating. Another benefit to the taxing of "legal" drugs, is that the high price may stop people from beginning the habit in the first place, which will help them avoid the negative medical or addictive side effects of the drug. In some cases, not everyone is allowed to buy these drugs unless they are a minimal age to do so. The age at which someone is allowed to buy a legal drug is most often decided by the government of a country, state or province, and is usually the age where a person is considered by the law to be an "adult". Some of the most common ages this happens is at 18, 19 or 21 years of age.

Therapeutic drugs are also called "medicinal drugs", "medicine", or "medication". Doctors will give therapeutic drugs to someone who is ill to make you better. You can buy these drugs at a pharmacy. Some drugs need a prescription to be bought, other drugs do not. Drugs that do not require a prescription are called "over the counter" medications. There are lots of these drugs for different illnesses. These include:


Bill Watterson

William B. Watterson II (born July 5, 1958) is an American artist and cartoonist. He is most famous for his comic strip, "Calvin and Hobbes" which was published between 1985 and 1995. He is a very private person and not much is publicly known about him. He also did not want people to sell things with the pictures of his characters on them, and the only things he allowed to be made using his characters were books with collections of Calvin and Hobbes strips. 

Centimetre

A centimeter(the American spelling is centimeter, symbol cm) is a unit of length in the International System of Units (SI) measurement system. It is equal to one hundredth of a metre. Centi- is placed in front to say 'a hundredth'. The centimeter is the base unit of length in the old centimeter-gram-second (CGS) system of units.

The centimetre is usually used to measure things that are too big for millimetre but too small for metres. A centimetre is close to the length of a fingernail. 

1 centimetre is "equal" to:

1 cubic centimetre is equal to 1 millilitre, under the SI system of units.

The centimetre is also used:

The centimetre has Unicode symbols so it can be written in Mandarin Chinese, Japanese and Korean characters. 

They are placed into one character, and it is mostly used with East Asian fonts.


Marilyn Manson (band)

Marilyn Manson is a rock band, and also the name of the lead singer of the group. The name Marilyn Manson was taken from the first name of actress and sex symbol Marilyn Monroe and the last name of cult leader and serial killer Charles Manson. Some of the earlier band members also created stage names by taking the first name of a female sex symbol and the last name of a serial killer.

When the band started in 1989 it was originally called "Marilyn Manson and the Spooky Kids". The band had four bandmembers and a drumming machine. They played small concerts in their home state Florida (the Warner family had moved from Ohio to Florida when Manson was a teenager).

In 1993 frontman Manson met Trent Reznor, lead singer for Nine Inch Nails. Reznor liked their style and offered them a record deal and the chance to tour with Nine Inch Nails. To get the deal, the band had to change its name to just "Marilyn Manson". They also had to find a real drummer.

In 1995, their cover of Sweet Dreams (originally by Eurythmics) became a hit, and the band was suddenly very popular.

The band is very good friends with Nat Morley who is often featured in their music videos.

Their first album was "Portrait of an American Family", which was released in 1993.

Other Marilyn Manson albums are 

Some of their greatest hits are "The Beautiful People", "Sweet Dreams (Are Made of This)", "The Dope Show", "Disposable Teens", "Tainted Love", and "Personal Jesus".

Marilyn Manson's songs about drugs, violence and anti-Christianity caused a lot of trouble, especially among Christians. There were protests at his concerts and they were not allowed to play in some cities.

Aubrey Beardsley

Aubrey Beardsley (21 August 1872 – 16 March 1898) was a English illustrator. He is best known for his drawings for Oscar Wilde's Salome. Beardsley is one of the famous people who appears on the cover of The Beatles, Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band album.

Beardsley was born in Brighton where his mother taught him to be interested in books and music. He was very good at music and drawing by the age of ten, but he was already sick with tuberculosis. After leaving school he worked as a clerk for an insurance company in London. He had to stop working at the end of 1889 because of his illness. He tried writing, but in 1891 he started to work full-time as an artist.

Odyssey

The Odyssey is a major Ancient Greek epic poem. It was written by Homer, as a sequel to the "Iliad". In its origin it was an oral epic poem from Mycenaean Greece, about the 11th century BC. The hero of the poem is Odysseus, or "Ulysses" as he is called in Latin; the poem is mythological, not historical.

The poem is the story about Odysseus's ten-year-long voyage home to Ithaca after the Trojan War. The Trojan War is the subject of the "Iliad". At the same time, his wife Penelope has to fight off a lot of men who want to marry her; and his son Telemachos searches for him.

Along the way, Odysseus and his men have to fight monsters and many other dangers. The main events (places he goes, creatures and people he meets) of Odysseus' journey are:

It is the story of the return of Ulysses after the Trojan War (Iliad)

On his journey home, Odysseus lands on the island of the Cyclops Polyphemus. They go inside his cave at the sight of sheep, cheese and milk. Polyphemus catches them and eats some of Odysseus' men. Odysseus tricks and blinds him and they escape. The Cyclops prays to his father Poseidon that Odysseus would not get home to Ithaca and if he was fated to make it home, Odysseus would lose all of his men, his ship and find trouble at home. This prayer becomes the plot line of the Odyssey.

Odysseus and his ship have to pass the Sirens' island. The Sirens were always singing very beautifully, so sailors would try to go to them, but their ships would get destroyed, and they would die.
Odysseus tells his men to put wax in their ears, so they will not hear the song of the sirens. He also tells his men to bind him to the ship's mast, so he cannot go to the sirens when he hears their song. His men can then look at Odysseus and see when he cannot hear the sirens anymore, because he is calm again. Then they can take the wax out of their ears, and free Odysseus.

After escaping from the sea, and the death of his men, Odysseus comes to the island Ogygia. On this island lives the nymph Calypso, and Odysseus stayed with her for seven years. But then the god Hermes came and told her that the gods said that she had to let Odysseus go. Calypso promised Odysseus immortality (that he would live forever) if he stayed, but he wanted to go back to his wife Penelope. So Odysseus built a raft and left her.

After a storm, Odysseus comes to the island of the Phaeacians. There he is found by the king's daughter Nausicaä. Nausicaä brings him to the palace of her father, King Alkinoos. During his time there, Odysseus tell the story of his journey. After this, Alkinoos gives Odysseus a ship and sends him home to Ithaca.
During all this time, Penelope has been keeping the suitors at bay with a ruse (trick). She promises "I will choose when I have finished weaving this cloth", the cloth being a burial cloth for Odysseus' father. However, every night her servant unpicks the work of the previous day. The story is made more real by Penelope becoming restless. The goddess Athena causes Penelope to feel the need to display herself, and fan the flames of the suitors' desire.

Odysseus finally returns to Ithaca, where he disguises himself as a beggar. He goes to his home and meets his son Telemachus. Together they kill the suitors, who are trying to marry Penelope in order to gain his kingdom. Later, the families of the suitors come to kill Odysseus for revenge. The goddess Athena helps Odysseus by making them stop and give up the fight.



