Meteor


A meteor is what you see when a space rock falls to Earth. It is often known as a shooting star or falling star and can be a bright light in the night sky, though most are faint. A few survive long enough to hit the ground. That is called a meteorite, and a large one sometimes leaves a hole in the ground called a crater. 

A rock that has not yet hit the atmosphere is called a meteoroid. Meteoroids may range in size from large pieces of rock to tiny dust particles floating in space that did not form planets. When the meteoroids enter Earth's atmosphere they are usually going faster than the Earth's escape velocity of 13 km/sec or Mach 40. This makes them heat up and usually break apart. When the heat makes them glow, they are known as meteors.

Meteors are distinct from comets or asteroids, but some, especially those associated with meteor showers, are dust particles that came out of comets.

There are several types of meteorites including: stony, carbonaceous chondrites, and iron-nickel. Stony meteorites are named because they are largely made up of stone-like mineral material. Carbonaceous chondrites have a high carbon content. Iron-nickel meteorites are mostly iron often with significant nickel as well.

Meteorites happened often during the Late Heavy Bombardment. Nowadays they sometimes hurt people and property. The 2013 Russian meteor event did the most damage. Large meteorite strikes may have played a part in several of the mass extinctions, and so indirectly on the course of evolution. (see K/T extinction event; List of extinction events; Chicxulub crater)

Chondrites are stony (non-metallic) meteorites that are as old as the Solar System: 4.55 billion years. They sometimes contain amino acids and other organic molecules.

They have not been modified due to melting or other disturbances. They are formed when various types of dust and small grains that were present in the early solar system accreted to form primitive asteroids. They are the most common type of meteorite that falls to Earth: they are about 85 or 86 percent of all meteorites. 

Their study gives clues about the origin and age of the Solar System, the synthesis of organic compounds, the origin of life or the presence of water on Earth. Chondrites can be differentiated from iron meteorites by their low iron and nickel content.
In 2021, a meteorite crashed on the Gloucestershire town of Winchcombe. It contained water that was a near-perfect match for that on Earth. The meteorite was picked up soon after it landed. This is a suggested source for the water on Earth.

About 8 percent of meteorites show signs of melting and recrystallizing. They look rather like basalt or granite.

Iron meteorites are meteorites made of an iron–nickel alloy. They are about 6 percent of all meteorites. This comes from the inner cores of early small proto-planets. The iron found in iron meteorites was one of the earliest sources of usable iron, before humans invented smelting. That signalled the beginning of the iron age. Iron meteorites are easily found, because they are one of the most common resources in space.

Siderolites are stony-iron meteorites that have almost equal parts of iron and silicates. They are quite rare: only about 1 percent of all meteorites are siderolites.


Similarity

Similarity can mean:

In mathematics:

In computer science:

In other fields:


Notepad

Notepad is a word processing program, which allows changing of text in a computer file. Notepad was created by the Microsoft corporation. It is a text editor, a very simple word processor. It has been a part of Microsoft Windows since 1985. The program has options such as changing the font, the font size, and the font style. The most common use for Notepad is to view or change (edit) text (.txt) files, though .dat and .ini files can be changed in Notpad as well. Many users find Notepad a simple program for creating webpages.

Unlike using special software programs to create webpages, a Notepad user must write their webpages directly in the HTML markup language.

Max Planck

Max Karl Ernst Ludwig Planck (April 23, 1858 in Kiel – October 4, 1947 in Göttingen) was a physicist from Germany. He discovered quantum mechanics. He won the Nobel Prize in physics.

Planck came from an old fashioned, intelligent family. His great-grandfather and grandfather were both theology professors in Göttingen; his father was a law professor in Kiel and Munich; and his paternal uncle was a judge.
Planck was born in Kiel, Holstein, to Johann Julius Wilhelm Planck and his second wife, Emma Patzig. He was baptised with the name of "Karl Ernst Ludwig Marx Planck"; of his given names, "Marx" (a now not used variant of "Markus" or maybe simply an error for "Max", which is actually short for "Maximilian") was indicated as the primary name. However, by the age of ten he signed with the name "Max" and used this for the rest of his life.

He was the sixth child in the family, although two of his brothers and sisters were from his father's first marriage. Among his earliest memories was the marching of Prussian and Austrian troops into Kiel during the Danish-Prussian war of 1864. In 1867 the family moved to Munich, and Planck enrolled in the Maximilians gymnasium school, where he came under the tutelage of Hermann Müller, a mathematician who took an interest in the youth, and taught him astronomy and mechanics as well as mathematics. It was from Müller that Planck first learned the principle of conservation of energy. Planck graduated early, at age 17. This is how Planck first came in contact with the field of physics.


Jay Leno

James Douglas Muir "Jay" Leno (; born April 28, 1950) is an American comedian, actor, screenwriter, producer, television host and television presenter.

Leno was born James Douglas Muir Leno in New Rochelle, New York on April 28, 1950. His mother Catherine (née Muir; 1911–1993) was a homemaker. She was born in Greenock, Scotland and came to the United States at the age of 11. Leno's father, Angelo (1910–1994), was an insurance salesman, who was born in New York, to immigrants from Flumeri, Italy. Leno grew up in Andover, Massachusetts and even though his high school guidance counselor recommended that he drop out of school, he later obtained a Bachelor's degree in speech therapy from Emerson College, where he started a comedy club in 1973. Leno's only sibling was his late older brother Patrick, who was a Vietnam veteran and a lawyer.

Leno worked on late night television. He became host of "The Tonight Show" in 1992 when Johnny Carson retired. In 2007, during the writer's strike, Leno sided with the writers, even though he returned to his show after two months (without the writers besides himself) so that his staff would not be out of work. Despite leading the late-night ratings, he was forced out as host of the Tonight Show in 2009 to make way for Conan O'Brien. On March 1, 2010, became "The Tonight Show" host once again, because of poor ratings with both himself and Conan O'Brien. Leno hosted his last episode of the Tonight Show on February 6, 2014.

He was a star of a primetime comedy show, "The Jay Leno Show", which ran from September 14, 2009 to February 9, 2010.

He guest-starred twice on the Nickelodeon TV series "The Fairly OddParents" as the Crimson Chin. His character's name uses the fact that Leno has a large and square chin.

Since 1980, Leno has been married to Mavis Leno; they have no children. Leno is dyslexic.

<br>

Vancouver

Vancouver is a coastal city and major seaport on the mainland of southwestern British Columbia, Canada. The city has a population of over 630,000 and is the largest city in British Columbia. Metro Vancouver has a population of over 2 million people. That makes it the third largest metropolitan area in Canada. Vancouver has a mix of people from different cultures. Fifty-two percent of city residents have a first language that is not English.

Native People began living in this area around 10,000-8,000 years ago. These people were part of three main groups: the Squamish, Musqueam, and Tsleil-Waututh.

Vancouver was founded in 1886, and is named after British naval captain George Vancouver. Captain Vancouver explored the area around Vancouver and Vancouver Island in the 1790s.

The University of British Columbia is in Vancouver.

Vancouver also has Stanley Park which has beaches and totem poles. Nearby is Grouse Mountain which has good skiing and has a 2.9 km (1.8 mi.) hiking trail which is known as the Grouse Grind. Grouse Mountain also has an animal sanctuary, including wolves and bears.

The Lions Gate Bridge is also in Stanley Park, Vancouver.

Vancouver has two ice hockey teams, the Vancouver Canucks (who play for the National Hockey League) and the Vancouver Giants (who play for the Western Hockey League).

The BC Lions of the Canadian Football League are based in Vancouver. The team has won 6 Grey Cups.

In soccer, Vancouver is home to the Vancouver Whitecaps FC. They play in the Major League Soccer (MLS).

The 2010 Winter Olympics were held in Vancouver and it was the first time Canada won a gold medal on Canadian soil.

Vancouver is on a peninsula on the West Coast of Canada, less than a one-hour drive north of the Canada-U.S. border.
Between Vancouver and the Pacific Ocean to the west is a large island called Vancouver Island. Until the city was named in 1885, "Vancouver" referred to Vancouver Island. Some people mistakenly think that the city is on Vancouver Island. 
On the south shore of Vancouver is the Fraser River, which flows west into the Strait of Georgia. The water along the north shore is called Burrard Inlet.
The city has an area of 114 square kilometres (44 sq mi). The larger metropolitan area is 2,878 square kilometres (1,111 sq mi).
As with most of British Columbia, Vancouver is in the Pacific Time Zone (UTC−8).

Vancouver has an oceanic climate ("Cfb" in the Köppen climate classification). The average precipitation per year is 1189 mm, mostly from October to April. High temperatures in the summer average 22 °C. The highest temperature ever recorded was 34.4 °C on July 30, 2009. On average, snow falls on only 11 days per year. The snow is usually wet, not very deep, and melts in the rain. On average, on only 4.5 days a year does the temperature not rise above freezing.
Vancouver has had a housing affordability crisis for many years. It came in as the second-least affordable housing market compared with 90 other metropolitan areas in different countries. The only place considered less affordable was Hong Kong.

Vancouver has been criticized for saying that it provides many social housing units to residents. However "social housing" can refer to small apartments renting for $1,700 per month. There are people with household incomes of up to $120,000 living in "social housing" in Vancouver.

The government has been attempting to address the housing crisis situation by imposing a series of taxes such as the Foreign-buyers tax and Empty Homes Tax in 2016 and Speculation tax in 2018.

Rents in Vancouver were very high, and apartment vacancies were very low in 2019.





