American football


American football, referred to as football in the United States and Canada and also known as gridiron, is a team sport. It is played by two teams with 11 players on each side. American football is played with a ball with pointed ends. Points are scored in many ways, usually by one team getting the ball into the end zone of the other team. The game started in the late 19th century as college football, an American version of rugby football.

The main leagues that play American football are the professional National Football League (NFL), and the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), which plays college football. In the National Football League, players can be paid millions of dollars. In the National Collegiate Athletic Association, players simply play for the pride of their school, scholarships, or for the chance to join a national team. Over a million boys (and a number of girls) play high school football. There is also a closely related sport called Canadian football (CFL).

An American football game is played with a ball called a football. The sport is played on a grass (or artificial turf) field. The field is exactly long and wide. The end zones, one at each end of the field, are long. The players wear protective equipment, including a helmet with face mask, shoulder pads, thigh pads, and often a mouth guard. A team has four chances, or "downs", to advance the ball while the opposing team tries to stop it. Certain players advance the ball by carrying or throwing it. Teams can score by advancing the ball to the other team's end zone or by kicking the ball through a goalpost placed at the back of the end zone. American football is carefully regulated by time and rules, which are enforced by officials, who also determine when a team scores.

A college or professional football game is 60 minutes long, and is divided into 15-minute quarters. In some high schools, the quarters are 12 minutes long, and games for younger children are often shorter still. After the first two quarters, the teams rest during halftime.

In NFL football, if the game is tied after the four quarters, the two teams compete in at least one more 15-minute period called overtime. During overtime, the first team to score points is usually the winner. However, under the current rules, first used for the 2011 postseason, if the team that has the ball first ends its possession by scoring a field goal, the other team has a chance to score. If that team does not score, or if it scores a touchdown, the game ends. If it scores a field goal, the game continues, and the next team to score wins. During the regular season, only one overtime period is played—if neither team scores, or if both teams score field goals when they first have the ball, the game ends in a tie. During the playoffs, the game will continue with as many overtime periods as needed to decide a winner. If the game is tied after each team has had the ball once in overtime, the first team to score wins.

In NCAA football overtime, which is based on the system used for high school football in most U.S. states, the teams take turns trying to score. The game ends when one team scores, and the other team fails to score as many points during its chance.

American football is played on a field long by wide. Most of the game is played on in the middle. It is divided by 20 lines drawn every . The field has two other sets of markings, running between the two end zones along the length of the field, known as "hashmarks". All plays must start between the hashmarks—if the last play ended outside the hashmarks, the ball is moved to the nearest hashmark. At the ends of the field there are scoring areas, called the end zones.

There are also two yellow poles on the end of each field called uprights. Sometimes, if the team can not score a touchdown they might want to kick it through the uprights for three points. The uprights are also used for scoring one point after a team scored a touchdown.

There are many types of players on a football team. For the offensive part of the team, a quarterback throws the football to wide receivers while offensive linemen block to protect him from defensive players. The offensive linemen also block when a running back runs to advance the football. Players on the Defensive line, a linebacker, and defensive backs (cornerbacks and American football safeties) attempt to tackle the offensive player who carries the football.
Some team members only play during certain times. These players belong to the Special Teams. The kicker can kick the ball to the other team or between the uprights, while the placeholder holds the ball steady. The kick returner runs the ball down the field in an attempt to score points after catching the ball.

A touchdown is achieved when a player has legal possession of the ball and the ball crosses an imaginary vertical plane above the opposing team's goal line. After a touchdown, the scoring team attempts a try for 1 or 2 points (see below). A successful touchdown is signaled by an official extending both arms vertically above the head.

A field goal is scored when the ball is place kicked between the goal posts behind the opponent's end zone. The most common type of kick used is the place kick. For a place kick, the ball must first be snapped to a placeholder, who holds the ball upright on the ground with his fingertip so that it may be kicked. Three points are scored if the ball crosses between the two upright posts and above the crossbar and remains over.

Immediately following a touchdown, the scoring team can attempt to kick the ball between the goal posts for 1 extra point. The team can also run or pass the ball into the end zone for 2 points. This is not done very often, although it does happen if the game situation calls for it.

College football has unique rules regarding extra point attempts in overtime. Teams that score touchdowns are required to attempt a two-point conversion during the second overtime. Starting with the third overtime, the two teams alternate two-point conversion attempts, with the game ending when one team scores and the other does not.

In the NFL, college football, and high school football in Texas (whose rules are based on the NCAA set), if the defense takes possession of the ball during an extra point (via fumble, interception, or blocked kick) and returns the ball into the opponent's end zone, the defensive team receives 2 points. (In high school football outside of Texas, if the defense takes possession during an extra point, the play is dead at that moment and the conversion is ruled "no good".)

A safety is scored if a player causes the ball to become dead in his own end zone. When this happens two points are awarded to the opposing (usually defending) team. This can happen if a player is either downed or goes out of bounds in the end zone while carrying the ball. It can also happen if he fumbles the ball, and it goes out of bounds in the end zone. A safety is also awarded to the defensive team if the offensive team commits a foul which is enforced in its own end zone.

Exhibition season (better known as Pre-Season) is in August. In the exhibition season, the teams get ready for the regular season by having training. Teams have practices to help the team get better and see who will make the team. All of the teams play 3 games before the regular season starts, and the games do not change what team gets to the post season. Because of it, teams do not use their best players much, and use the games as more practice.

The 32 NFL teams are divided into two conferences: the National Football Conference (NFC) and the American Football Conference (AFC). Each of them is divided in four divisions: North, South, West and East. Each division includes four teams.
The season lasts 18 weeks. Each team plays 17 games and has one week off. This week of rest is called a "bye week".

At the end of the regular season, the winners of each division and the next three best teams in each conference play in a tournament. The NFC's champion and The AFC's champion play the NFL's final game, the Super Bowl. The event is often treated as a National holiday as many stores close for the event. The day of the event is commonly known nationwide as Super Bowl Sunday.


Notes


The Ugly Duckling

"The Ugly Duckling" () is a literary fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen. Andersen lavished great care on this story, spending a year perfecting it. It was first published in 1844 with "The Angel", "The Sweethearts", and "The Nightingale" in "New Fairy Tales". The critics liked these stories. Andersen considered the story "a reflection of my own life." The moral of the tale: "it does not matter if you were born in a duck yard if you have lain in a swan's egg." The tale has been adapted to various media such as animated movies.

A mother duck hatches six pretty little ducklings. A seventh bird is hatched. He is homely. The other ducks abuse him. He runs away. He is given a home by an old woman. Her cat and hen do not like him. He runs away again. Winter comes and a kind farmer gives him a home. The little bird almost dies. Spring comes. The "ugly duckling" has grown into a beautiful swan. The other swans welcome him as their own. They bow to him. He is happy for the first time in his life.


General relativity

General relativity is a theory of space and time. The theory was published by Albert Einstein in 1915. 

The main idea of general relativity is that space and time are two different parts of spacetime. In general relativity, gravity doesn't work the same way that Sir Isaac Newton said was how gravity worked. According to Einstein, gravity changes not only space, but also time. (Time dilation)

An important idea in general relativity is the "principle of equivalence". An example is that two people, one in an elevator on the surface of the Earth, and the other in an elevator in outer space but accelerating upwards at the will each observe the same behavior of an object they drop from their hands. The object will accelerate to the floor at 9.8 m/s in either case.

This makes it it impossible for either to distinguish whether or not they are at rest in a gravitational field. Other versions of this type of "thought experiment" were used to show that light would curve in an accelerating frame of reference.

The force pulling the Earth towards the Sun is about the same as a second force. This second force is called the centrifugal force. The centrifugal force exists because the Earth moves sideways. This sideways motion makes the distance between the Earth and Sun increase. Since the Earth is being pulled towards the sun and moving away at the same time, it stays at about the same distance. This is also how the Moon orbits the earth. In this second case, Earth is the ball and the Moon is the object. 

The Sun and other objects with mass curve four dimensional spacetime fabric.

General relativity has predicted many things which were later seen. These include:


Rutland

Rutland is the smallest county of England. It is surrounded by the counties of Leicestershire, Lincolnshire and Northamptonshire.

The main towns of Rutland are Oakham and Uppingham.

In the mid-1970s, it was the inspiration for Eric Idle's TV show, Rutland Weekend Television.

Adlai Stevenson I

Adlai Ewing Stevenson (October 23, 1835 – June 14, 1914) was an American politician. He was vice president of the United States under Grover Cleveland, and ran for President and several other political offices, but lost. He was also first assistant Postmaster General and a member of the United States House of Representatives from Illinois, as well. His grandson of the same name also was a notable politician and writer. Another grandson, McLean Stevenson was an actor. His other grandson was Illinois Senator Adlai Stevenson III.

Toledo, Ohio

Toledo is the fourth largest city in Ohio, USA. It was named after Toledo, Spain. It is a large industrial city and has many factories that make things like car parts and glass. Toledo is about an hour (by car) south of Detroit, Michigan. The main highways in and out of Toledo are Interstate 75, Interstate 80, Interstate 90, and U.S. Highways 20, 23, and 24. It is the 79th largest city in the United States.

Toledo is in the Northwest part of Ohio. The city is at the west end of Lake Erie, where the Maumee River meets the lake. The area of Ohio where Toledo sits is very flat and is known for its many farm fields.

Toledo was started as a village in Michigan in 1833. In 1835 and 1836, Ohio and Michigan both claimed to own the city and surrounding territory. Michigan gave up its claim and got the Upper Peninsula in exchange. In 1837, Toledo was made part of Ohio. The city first started growing because it was on a canal and had many railroads.

Later, Toledo became the home of factories and industry. The city grew much more in the 20th century and had its highest population in 1950. By the end of the century, factories closed and jobs were lost, causing Toledo to lose people. Its population in the year 2020 was 270,871.

The economy of Toledo is still based on factories and industry. Car assembly, glass, iron ore, oil refining, and solar panels are important parts of the area economy and provide many jobs. Also, many warehouses and trucking companies are in Toledo because of its location in the midwestern United States.

A large port on the Maumee River handles a variety of cargo, such as iron ore, grain, salt, and industrial equipment. It is the 5th largest port on the Great Lakes.

Toledo has many highways and railroads. Travelers can use interstate highways, Amtrak passenger trains, or the major airport near Detroit to get in and out of the area. Toledo is within a five-hour drive of major cities such as Toronto, Chicago, Columbus, Pittsburgh, Cleveland, Indianapolis, and Cincinnati.

Toledo is well known for minor league sports. Teams such as the Mud Hens (baseball) and Walleye (hockey) draw many fans each year. The city is also very proud of its zoo, art museum, and parks, all of which are ranked among the best in the country.

Certain things are well known as being from Toledo, such as the famous restaurant Tony Packo's (made famous in the TV show M*A*S*H) and the Jeep brand of automobiles.

Toledo has a humid continental climate ("Dfa" in the Köppen climate classification). This means that the city experiences all four seasons and the weather has differences in temperature and rain/snowfall through the year.

In the Winter, Toledo gets about three feet of snow through the season, and it can sometimes get very cold air from the north. In the Spring, it gets warmer and a lot of rain can fall. The Summer in Toledo can be hot and humid, with strong storms. Fall is more pleasant, with cooler winds and less rain.


The Carpenters

The Carpenters were an American musical duo. The members were Richard Carpenter and his sister Karen. Starting in 1969, the duo had many popular songs including "We've Only Just Begun", "Close to You", "Sing", "Rainy Days and Mondays", "Calling Occupants of Interplanetary Craft" and others. They continued until Karen's death in 1983 of bulimia in Downey, California. They sold over 100 million albums. 




