Belize


Belize () is a country in Central America. It used to be called "British Honduras", but changed its name in 1973. Long before that it was part of the Mayan Empire. Belize is the only English-speaking country in Central America. 

Some people in Belize speak Spanish or Kriol, but English is the official language and the most commonly spoken. This is because Belize is a former colony of the United Kingdom, while its neighbors were once colonies of Spain. Many people speak two languages. Belize is a melting pot of cultures. 

More than three hundred and thirty thousand (374,681 (2017)) people live in Belize. Kriols make up about 21% of the Belizean people. Three Maya groups now live in the country: the Yucatec, the Mopan, and Kekchi. The Garinagu are a mix of African, Arawak, and Carib ancestry. There are also Mestizos.

Belmopan, which is near the centre of the country, is its capital. The first capital was Belize City. Other towns and cities include Belize City, Corozal Town, Orange Walk Town, Punta Gorda, Santa Elena/San Ignacio (known as the twin town) and San Pedro Town.

Belize is on the coast of the Caribbean Sea. There are about 450 islands. The largest island, Ambergris Caye, is forty kilometres long. Many other islands are very small. In the water around the islands are coral reefs.

The temperature along the coast is hot all year round. It typically ranges from 21 °C to 32 °C. Sometimes hurricanes hit, causing great damage.

Belize is on the Caribbean coast of northern Central America. It shares a border on the north with the Mexican state of Quintana Roo, on the west with the Guatemalan department of Petén, and on the south with the Guatemalan department of Izabal. To the east is the Caribbean Sea. The Belize Barrier Reef is along most of the of predominantly marshy coastline. Belize have the second largest living barrier reef in the world. The area of the country totals . There are many lagoons along the coasts and in the northern part of the country. This makes the actual land area smaller at .

The Hondo and the Sarstoon River make the northern and southern border.

The north of Belize is mostly flat, swampy coastal plains. In some places it is heavily forested. The south has the low mountain range of the Maya Mountains. The highest point in Belize is Doyle's Delight at . The Caribbean coast is lined with a coral reef and about 450 islets and islands.The islands are locally called cayes (pronounced "keys"). Three of only four coral atolls in the Western Hemisphere are off the coast of Belize.

Over 60% of Belize's land surface is covered by forest. 20% is covered by cultivated land (agriculture) and human settlements. There are also important mangrove ecosystems across Belize's landscape.

Belize is divided into 6 districts. The districts are shown below with their areas (in km) and number of people at the 2010 Census:
Total areas and number of people 22,964 – 312,971

These districts are further divided into 31 constituencies.

The largest communities as of 2017 are:

The Belize Defence Force (BDF) is the military. It is responsible for protecting Belize. In 1997, the regular army had over 900 people, the reserve army 381, the air wing 45 and the maritime wing 36. This amounts to an overall strength of about 1400. In 2005, the maritime wing became part of the Belizean Coast Guard. In the same year, the government spent $1.2 million on the military. This is 1.87% of the country's gross domestic product (GDP).

After Belize became independent in 1981 the United Kingdom kept some military in the country to protect it from invasion by Guatemala. The main British force left in 1994. This was three years after Guatemala said Belize was independent. The United Kingdom still keeps some military people in the country. In 2011 the base was only 10 soldiers due to British budget cuts. They hope to reopen the base later.

Belizean cuisine is inspired by British, Mexican and Western Caribbean cooking. Since Belize is a melting pot of culture, it has adopted dishes from many different countries. The basic ingredients are rice and beans. These are often eaten with chicken, pork, veal, fish or vegetables. Coconut milk and fried plantains are added to the dishes to create a truly tropical taste. Exotic ingredients include armadillo meat, venison, iguana, iguana egg, and fried paca. Conch soup is a traditional dish. It has a characteristic taste and thick consistency due to added okra, potatoes, yams, cassava flour and a touch of toasted habanero. Belizean food is almost always served alongside white rice in coconut milk.

The most common dishes that you will encounter in Belize are the following:

Mestizo- Tamales, Relleno, Escabeche, Empanades and many other corn food. 

Creole- The famous Rice and Beans, sere, and other dishes with may include cassava and yam.

The major sports in Belize are football, basketball, volleyball and cycling. There are smaller followings of boat racing, track & field, softball and cricket. Fishing is also popular in areas of Belize. The Cross Country Cycling Classic is one of the most important Belize sports events. This one-day sports event is meant for amateur cyclists but has also gained a worldwide popularity.

On Easter day, citizens of Dangriga participate in a yearly fishing tournament. First, second, and third prize are awarded based on a scoring combination of size, species, and number. The tournament is broadcast over local radio stations. Prize money is awarded to the winners.

Belize's National Basketball Team is the only National Team to have major victories internationally.

The black orchid (Encyclia Cochleatum) is the National Flower of Belize. This orchid grows on trees in damp areas, and flowers nearly all year round. Its clustered bulblike stems vary in size up to six inches long and carry two or three leaves.

The black orchid flower has greenish-yellow petals and sepals with purple blotches near the base. The "lip" (one petal of special construction, which is the flower's showiest) is shaped like a valve of a clamshell (hence the name Encyclia Cochleatum) and is deep purple-brown, almost black, with conspicuous radiating purple veins.

The National Tree of Belize is the Mahogany Tree ("Swietenia macrophylla"), one of the magnificent giants of the Belize rain forest. It rises straight and tall to over a hundred feet. In the early months of the year, when the leaves fall and new red-brown growth appears, the tree can be seen from a great distance. The tree puts out a many small whitish flowers. The flowers blossom into dark fruits, which are pear-shaped capsules about six inches long. The mahogany tree matures in 60 to 80 years.

The Keel Billed Toucan ("Ramphastos sulfuratus") is the National Bird of Belize. It is noted for its great, canoe-shaped bill and its brightly coloured green, blue, red and orange feathers. There are toucans in open areas of the country with large trees. It is mostly black with bright yellow cheeks and chest, red under the tail and a distinctive white patch at the base of the tail. They make a monotonous frog-like croak. Toucans like fruits. They eat by cutting with the serrated edge of their bills.

The Tapir or Mountain Cow (Tapirello Bairdii) is the largest land mammal of the American tropics. The tapir is a stoutly built animal with short legs, about the size of a donkey and weighs up to 600 pounds. Its general color is dusty brown with a white fringe around the eyes and lips, white tipped ears and occasional white patches of fur on the throat and chest.

In spite of its local name, the tapir is not a cow. It is closely related to the horse and is also kin to the rhinoceros. The tapir is a vegetarian. It spends much of its time in water or mud shallows, and is a strong swimmer.

The National Animal is protected under the law thus the hunting of the tapir is illegal.

Notes

Michael Landon

Michael Landon (October 31, 1936 - July 1, 1991) was an American actor. He is best known for his roles on the TV shows, "Bonanza", "Little House on the Prairie", and "Highway to Heaven".


Titanic

The RMS Titanic was a British passenger ship. She was built by Harland and Wolff ship builders, in Belfast, for the White Star Line shipping company. She sank during her first trip at sea, after hitting an iceberg.

Before "Titanic" sailed, many people thought it would be almost impossible for ships of this design to sink, due to her configuration of watertight bulkheads and an incident involving her older sister "Olympic".

"Titanic" had a length of 882 feet, 9 inches (or 269.1 meters), a height of 175 feet (53.3 meters), a draught of 34 foot, 7 inches (or 10.5 m), and a width of 92 feet, 6 inches (or 28 meters), and "Titanic" weighs 52,310 tons.

After Cunard Line launched their two sister ships "Mauritania" and "Lusitania", White Star knew they had to be better. They responded by making plans for three sister ships, named "Olympic", "Titanic", and "Britannic". 

The three sisters would have been the biggest ships ever at the time, standing at an impressive 882.6 feet long, and 175 feet high from the very bottom to the funnels. 

They were also to be the most luxurious ships ever designed. Below the waterline was the orlop decks for cargo, and the tank top where the engines, boilers, turbines, and electrical generators were. At the very top was the boat deck, where the bridge and wheelhouse were, as well as the lifeboats. Accommodations for first class included a gymnasium, four dining location options (Dining saloon, Cafe Parisian, A La Carte Resturant, and the Veranda Cafe), a reading room, swimming pool, squash court, and a Turkish bath. Second class had a library, which was used by first and second class. All of the classes had lounges, promenades, and smoking rooms. In between were the decks for the passengers with first, second, and third class cabins. "Titanic" would act like a floating hotel, featuring the Grand Staircase which allowed first-class passengers to move from deck to deck, and had a dome skylight to allow natural light in. "Titanic" carried 20 out of possible 64 lifeboats. "Titanic" had 4 funnels, but only 3 were attached to boilers. Many claimed the "Titanic" was unsinkable because the hull was divided into 16 watertight compartments. 
"Olympic" and "Titanic" began construction as build numbers 400 and 401, respectively. The two ships were built next to each other in Harland and Wolff's shipyard. Nearly three million rivets were used for "Titanic". The construction of the "Titanic" began on 31 March 1909. 

"Titanic" was launched 2 years later on 31 May 1911. It would cost $7.5 million to build. 

In September 1911, "Olympic" collided with the British warship HMS "Hawke". The damaged "Olympic" went back to port for repairs, making Titanic's building late.

"Titanic"'s voyage was going badly before it even started. The Coal Strike of 1912 caused many smaller ships' trips to be cancelled and their passengers transferred to "Titanic". A passenger who booked first class on "Oceanic", another White Star Line ship, was offered second class on "Titanic". He declined the offer.

Famous passengers aboard included American millionaire John Jacob Astor IV, American fashion icon Margaret Brown, and President Taft's military aide, Archibald Butt.

Important cargo included a jeweled copy of the Rubaiyat, a red Renault car owned by William Carter, 12 cases of ostrich feathers, and 76 cases of "Dragon's blood."

She left from Southampton, England at noon on 10 April 1912. "Titanic" was nearly hit by the American steamer SS "New York". Luckily, "New York" was pulled away by the tugboat named "Vulcan". Due to this delay, "Titanic" arrived in the ports of Cherbourg and Queenstown about two hours later than expected.

"Titanic" received more than ten ice warnings from various vessels across the Atlantic, warning her of icebergs on her planned route. Captain Smith ordered the ship to steer to the south to not hit an iceberg.

A lifeboat drill on April 14 was cancelled because Captain Smith held a Sunday service in the first class dining saloon. 

"Titanic"'s wireless operators received a warning from the SS "Californian". The operators, who were behind in sending messages due to a broken radio system the day previous, told "Californian" to shut up and keep out. "Titanic" was working to the Cape Race radio station, nearly 400 miles away. As such, "Titanic" had to have their headphones turned up to max to hear them. When "Californian" buzzed in, the noise was so loud it nearly deafened "Titanic"'s operators. "Californian" shut down their radio system for the night.

As it became dark, the water temperatures were dropping to below freezing and there was no moonlight, or waves, making it difficult to see approaching icebergs.

At 11:39 on 14 April 1912, during the "Titanic"'s first trip, the lookouts Frederick Fleet and Reginald Lee both spotted an iceberg ahead in the path. Fleet rang the lookout bell three times, and telephoned James Moody at the ship’s bridge, shouting “Iceberg, right ahead!”

Fleet had spotted the iceberg with his eyes, since the crows nest binoculars were locked away. The key’s owner, David Blair, had been removed from the Titanic’s crew at the last minute and forgot to hand over the key. William Murdoch orders Robert Hichens to steer "Titanic" away from an iceberg and the engines to be stopped or reversed, but it was too late. 

At 11:40, "Titanic" collided with an iceberg in the Atlantic Ocean. The iceberg tore gashes into the "Titanic"'s lower hull through five watertight compartments, letting water into the ship. The "Titanic" sank two hours and forty minutes later at 2:20 on 15 April 1912.

Before "Titanic" sinks after hitting an iceberg, lifeboats were lowered with the order "women and children first," calling for men to step back and allow their wives and children into the boats before them. 

The Cunard liner RMS "Carpathia", 58 miles away, heard the distress call and began sailing towards the "Titanic" to rescue the passengers. 

Distressed players were shot into the sky to help locate the sinking "Titanic". By 1:00 A.M., with the lower decks flooding, the bow began to sink below the water’s surface. As the bow dipped underwater, passengers and crew began to panic, sometimes overfilling lifeboats. 

The officers used their revolvers in an attempt to keep order. One of the officers supposedly shot two passengers before turning his gun on himself. Captain Smith gave the order "every man for himself," calling for the crew to abandon their posts, as the sinking had gotten to a point where any sense of order had evaporated.

The sinking accelerated as water reached the boat deck, with the final two lifeboats having to be cut free from the deck and floated off. The ship's forward two funnels also collapsed when water reached their bases, sucking anyone unfortunate enough to be near them to the boiler rooms. By 2:05, the last lifeboat, Collapsible A, had left, but 1,500 people were left on board. The clock says 2:15. The dome of the Grand Staircase implodes by the water pressure. The propellers were completely out of waters; the stern rises higher into the air.

At 2:18, "Titanic" reaches 45 degrees. Her lights went out, and a huge roar is heard. The keel starts to crack, and "Titanic" breaks in half. "Titanic" disappears beneath the sea, 2 hours and 40 minutes after colliding with an iceberg. The ship was then claimed by the dead-calm, freezing-cold ocean. The wreck killed around 1,500 people. Only 705 people lived, out of the roughly 2,200 aboard. It was one of the worst shipwrecks up to that point that was not during a war.
One reason why so many people died was that the ship did not have enough lifeboats for everyone on board. The "Titanic" had 20 lifeboats with room for 1,178 passengers, only about a third of the number of passengers the ship could carry. It actually had more lifeboats than was needed by law (it needed 16 with room for 990 passengers). This was because the laws put forth by the British Board of Trade were out of date. They did not say that a ship needed enough lifeboats for all passengers. They only said that a ship weighing more than 10,000 tons needed 16 lifeboats (the Titanic weighed 46,000 tons). Furthermore, the White Star Line believed that the lifeboats on the "Titanic" would only be needed to take passengers a short distance to a rescue ship.

Higher class women and children were allowed on the lifeboats first, and passengers who sailed in first class (which meant that they paid for better rooms on the ship) were allowed on before other passengers. Few of the poorer people who had paid less (called second class and third class passengers) got out safely. Stories persist of the third class passengers being locked behind massive floor-to-ceiling gates, but those stories are merely a myth. A similar event that did occur, however, was the staff of the A La Carte Restaurant being locked in their cabins overnight. They were not employed by White Star and were mostly immigrants. Only two of them, who happened to be outside their cabins when they were locked, survived. The rest drowned, locked away below decks.

Several of the wealthier passengers stepped aside to allow the women and children into the lifeboats. Among them was the American businessman Benjamin Guggenheim, who was spoke to his mistress right before she left in one of the boats. Tell my wife I've done my best in doing my duty. We are dressed in our best and prepared to go down as gentlemen. No woman shall die because Ben Guggenheim was a coward.Another reason so few people survived was that the radio was off on the "SS Californian", the ship closest to the "Titanic". The "Californian"'s crew did not hear about the accident until the morning afterwards. Also, the "Titanic" did have rockets, but they were white. Back then, and still today, red meant emergency and other colors were used for identification. "Californian" saw the flares and assumed they were either company signals or sealing ships signaling to one another. Another ship, the RM"S Carpathia", did hear about the accident and collected all 705 survivors. Other vessels from all over the Atlantic came rushing to aid the stricken liner.

The high death toll had several reasons:

Many of those who died didn't die because they couldn't leave the ship before it sank. They died of hypothermia, while they were floating in the cold water, which was 28 degrees Fahrenheit (-2 Celcius). When the RMS "Carpathia" arrived, at 4.10 ship's time, there were many floating dead bodies in the water. Many lifeboats rowed away from those who were in the water shouting for help. Most lifeboats also did not go back to the ship, like lifeboat 6. The people on the lifeboats were scared because the sinking might cause their boats to be pulled under by the waves. The people in the lifeboats were afraid the lifeboat would capsize when people entered it from the water. Only lifeboat 4 returned to the shouting people in the water. Five people could be rescued, but two of them died in the lifeboat. Around 3 AM ship's time, 40 minutes after the sinking, the last calls for help ceased. After 3 AM, lifeboat 14, commanded by Fifth Officer Harold Lowe, returned. He managed to save another four people, one of which died. 

The following table gives a listing of those who died and those who survived, grouped by age, gender and ships class. Children are those up to age 12. It is taken from a report to British Parliament of 1912. There are other lists, with slightly different numbers. 
The "Titanic" disaster changed many maritime ship laws. Because so many people died, authorities felt that laws should be put into place to make ship travel safer. Changes included requiring all ships to carry enough lifeboats for everyone on the ship, and emergency materials such as flares. Someone must be at the ship's radio all the time to respond to distress calls. The disaster also caused the creation of the International Ice Patrol, an organization dedicated to warning maritime vessels of icebergs in the Atlantic.

Alexander Brehm, a German physicist, was shocked when he heard about the disaster. He wanted to invent a technology that would be able to detect icebergs. He wasn't able to achieve that goal until his death, but he was granted patents relating to the measurement of the depth at sea, using sound. Today, this is known as echo sounding. 

Of the 337 bodies recovered, 119 were buried at sea. 150 "Titanic" victims are buried in three Halifax cemeteries: Fairview Lawn, Mount Olivet and Baron de Hirsch.

Grave 227 marked “J. Dawson”, who was aged 20, gained fame following the release of the 1997 film "Titanic", since the name of Leonardo DiCaprio’s character in the film is Jack Dawson. This grave actually belongs to Joseph Dawson, an Irishman who worked in Titanic’s boiler room as a coal trimmer.

The wreck was found by a French and American team, led by Dr. Robert Ballard, on September 1, 1985 early that morning by the DSV Alvin, a ship that goes down very deep (submersible). 

In 1986, Ballard returned to the wreck with a submarine. He took many photos and made lots of films and footage, and he got really famous. 

In 1987, a French team on the DSV Nautile, a ship that goes under the water, salvaged some 900 objects and took them to the surface. This act made some people very angry because they thought that the Titanic should be left alone, as it is a place where lots of people died.

In June 1994, the U.S. gave RMS Titanic Inc., which used to be known as Titanic Ventures, full permission to take whatever it would like from the wreck.

In September 1995, "Titanic", directed by James Cameron, began production.

In September of 2000, a Russian "Titanic" tour submersible got caught in a high-speed underwater current and smashed into one of the ship's propellers. They managed to free themselves with mostly no damage to either ship. 

In 2012, the Titanic’s remains turned 100 years old. 

In June 2023, OceanGate’s submersible, RV "Titan" (Cyclops 2), lost contact with the surface and imploded, resulting in the deaths of five very rich people who paid 250,000 dollars to trip down to the "Titanic."

In August of 2023, RMS Titanic Inc. made plans to go to the wreck and recover the radio machine from the wreck. This was met lots of anger, as people were worried the expedition would hurt the ship. The US government did not want the company to do this, so they probably won't.

In March 2024, Clive Palmer, an Australian billionaire, announced plans for construction of a "Titanic II" to begin, taking the same voyage route as the original.

Today, it is unclear, if the exact positions where the iceberg hit the ship can still be determined.

The story of the sinking has been made into several movies. The most popular film version is James Cameron's 1997 film starring Kate Winslet and Leonardo DiCaprio called "Titanic". It won 11 Academy Awards, tying "Ben-Hur" for the record for the most Academy Awards won by one movie. 

Other movie versions of the story include the 1958 film "A Night to Remember", the 1953 film "Titanic", the 1979 film "S.O.S. Titanic "and the 1996 miniseries "Titanic".

More recently, the 2024 film "Unsinkable" was announced, featuring the American Senate Inquiry into the disaster, as well as flashbacks to the night of the sinking.

In the 1980 film "Raise the Titanic", directed by Jerry Jameson, salvagers raise the shipwreck from the bottom of the ocean to the surface in one piece. However, this is impossible to do in reality. The "Titanic" broke in two, and the wreck is partially stuck in the bottom, buried under more than a yard (1 m) of mud in some spots. The ship has been on the ocean floor for more than 100 years, and would break into many more pieces if disturbed. Worms and other animals have eaten away much of the wood and many other parts.

Countless books also exist of the event, the most famous of these being A Night to Remember, the 1953 book that inspired the 1958 film of the same name.

Several video games have been made about the sinking, most notably the 1996 game "Titanic: Adventure out of Time", and the still-in-development video game "Titanic: Honor and Glory" (2023).


Steel

Steel is iron mixed with carbon and sometimes other metals. It is harder and stronger than iron. Iron with more than 1.7% percent carbon by weight is named cast iron. Steel is different from wrought iron, which has little or no carbon.

Steel has a long history. People in India and Sri Lanka were making small amounts of steel more than 2,500 years ago. It was very expensive and was often used to make swords and knives. In the Middle Ages, steel could be made only in small amounts since the processes took a long time.

In the time since, there have been many changes to the way steel is made. In about the year 1610 steel started to be made in England, and the way it was made got better and cheaper over the next 100 years. Cheap steel helped start the Industrial Revolution in England and in Europe. The first industrial Converter (metallurgy) for making cheap steel was the Bessemer converter, followed by Siemens-Martin open-hearth process. 

Today the most common way of making steel is the basic-oxygen process. The converter is a large turnip-shaped vessel. Liquid raw iron called "pig iron" is poured in and some scrap metal is added in to balance the heat. Oxygen is then blown into the iron. The oxygen burns off the extra carbon and other impurities. Then enough carbon is added to make the carbon contents as wanted. The liquid steel is then poured. It can be either cast into molds or rolled into sheets, slabs, beams and other so-called "long products", such as railway tracks. Some special steels are made in electric arc furnaces.

Steel is most often made by machines in huge buildings called "steel mills". It is a very cheap metal and is used to make many things. Steel is used in making buildings and bridges, and all kinds of machines. Almost all ships and cars are today made from steel. When a steel object is old, or it is broken beyond repair, it is called "scrap". It can be melted down and re-shaped into a new object. Steel is "recyclable" material; that is, the same steel can be used and re-used.

Steel is a metal alloy which includes iron and often some carbon. 

Every material is made up of atoms which are very small parts. Some atoms hold together quite well, which is what makes some solid materials hard. Something made of pure iron is softer than steel because the atoms can slip over one another. If other atoms like carbon are added, they are different from iron atoms and stop the iron atoms from sliding apart so easily. This makes the metal stronger and harder. 

Changing the amount of carbon (or other atoms) added to steel will change those things that are interesting and useful about the metal. These are called the properties of the steel. Some properties are:


Steel with more carbon is harder and stronger than pure iron, but it also breaks more easily (brittle).

There are thousands of steel types, each made of different amounts of different chemical elements.

All steels have some elements that have a bad effect, such as phosphorus (P) and sulphur (S). Steel makers take out as much P and S as possible.

Plain carbon steels are made only of iron, carbon, and undesired elements. They fall into three general groups. Plain carbon steel with 0.05 to 0.2% carbon does not harden by heat treating. Welding it is simple, so it is used for shipbuilding, boilers, pipes, fence wire and other purposes where low cost is important. Plain steels are used for springs, gears, and engine parts. Plain carbon steel with 0.45 to 0.8% carbon is used for very hard items such as shears and machine tools.

Alloy steels are plain carbon steel with metals such as Boron (B), manganese (Mn), chromium (Cr), nickel (Ni), molybdenum (Mo), tungsten (W), and cobalt (Co) added. These give other properties than plain carbon steel. Alloy steels are made for specialized purposes. For example, chromium can be added to make stainless steel, which does not rust easily, or boron can be added to make very hard steel that is also not brittle.

There are a huge number of things that people make from steel. It is one of the most common and useful metals. 
A lot of items made from iron in the past are now made of steel. Some of them are:


Luftwaffe

The Luftwaffe (pronounced ) is the name for the air force of Germany. It was the name for the air force of Germany during the Third Reich when Adolf Hitler was in power (between 1933 and 1945). It has also been the name for the air force since it was re-established in 1955 during the era of the Cold War. Luftwaffe means Air weapon in English.

Germany first had aeroplanes in its army in 1910, four years before the start of World War I in 1914. At that time, aeroplanes had no guns. They were being used for reconnaissance duties. They would fly over the battlefield to see what the enemy was doing and fly back so that the pilots could tell their generals what they knew. The generals used that information to help plan the fighting.

During World War I, Germany created the "Luftstreitkräfte", known in English as the Imperial German Air Service. The German navy also had its planes in the Marine-Fliegerabteilung.

Guns were fitted to planes in 1915. 
The fighter aeroplanes became very famous because of its brave pilots. The most famous German pilot of World War I was Manfred von Richthofen, also known as "The Red Baron" of Jasta 11. When he died in combat, Hermann Goering replaced him.

Germany also used airships called "Zeppelins". They were named after Count Ferdinand von Zeppelin, who had built the first airships in 1900. He had wanted them to carry cargo and passengers, not bombs. He died in 1917. 

In November 1918, the "Allies of World War I" (which included Britain and France) won the war, and Germany had to sign the Treaty of Versailles. The treaty said that Germany could not have any military aeroplanes at all because it was blamed for starting the war in 1914. Germany therefore had to destroy all its military aeroplanes as a punishment, so until 1933 it had no air force at all.

Between January and September 1918 German pilots shot down 3,732 Allied planes while losing 1,099 aircraft. By the end of the war, the German Army Air Service had a total of 2,709 frontline aircraft, 56 airships, 186 balloon detachments and about 4,500 flying personnel. After the war ended in German defeat, the service was dissolved completely. The Treaty of Versailles demanded that its aeroplanes should be destroyed.

For many years, Germany pretended to have no army pilots. The German army generals did not like the idea of not having any aeroplanes, so they acted secretly and used tricks. At first, pilots would pretend to be training to become airline pilots but this was not much use because they really needed to fly fighters and bombers. The Treaty of Versailles did not allow Germany to have them, so Germany had to ask for help from Russia, its former (and future) enemy.

In 1924, German army pilots started to fly Russian fighters and bombers at a secret training school near the Russian city of Lipetsk. These pilots would then become the first ones to fly for the new German air force, the Luftwaffe, when Hitler said that it now existed. The training school closed in 1933.

In 1935, Adolf Hitler finally told the world that Germany had a new air force, even though the Treaty of Versailles forbade it. Hitler was defying the Allies, who had won World War I. The allies did nothing about this, because many still remembered the war in 19141918. They were frightened by the idea of war and did not want another one.

The Spanish Civil War of 1936–1939 gave the Germans the opportunity to test its new aircraft, pilots and weapons in battle. Hitler sent many aeroplanes and pilots to Spain because he wanted to support Francisco Franco, who wanted to get rid of the Spanish government. The aeroplanes included fighter aircraft called the Messerschmitt Bf 109 and dive bombers called the Junkers Ju 87 ‘Stuka”.

During the war. German bombers attacked the city of Guernica in the Basque region of northeast Spain, and many civilians died in the attack. Many governments and people around the world were horrified by the attack. The artist Pablo Picasso made a painting called "Guernica" that has become very famous. People see the painting as a symbol of the horror of war. A copy of the painting hangs in the United Nations Headquarters in New York City.

The German air force was the strongest in the world when World War II broke out in September 1939. It supported the army on the ground and the aircraft were very effective at defeating all opposition. The German armed force, the "Wehrmacht", had practised a new, fast, way to defeat their enemies. This was called Blitzkrieg or "lightning war". The French and the British were more prepared for a trench war. 

Within a year, Germany had conquered Poland, Denmark, Norway, Luxembourg, Belgium, and France. Britain supported the countries attacked by Germany but found herself on her own by June 1940 when Germany had conquered most of western Europe.

As the war went on, things began to go badly wrong for the "Luftwaffe". A key event was the Battle of Britain, which was the effort by the Luftwaffe to destroy British industry, and to terrorise the civilian population. Despite destroying major parts of British industry and housing, the Luftwaffe eventually withdrew. The cost to the Luftwaffe of lost planes and skilled men was great. 

Not only that, but Germany was suffering a shortage of materials needed to build the aeroplanes. Things got worse for the Germans when the USA joined the war in December 1941, because the Americans brought bombers to the United Kingdom, and they attacked Germany from there. Soon, hundreds of American and British bombers were attacking Germany every day and night. The Luftwaffe was unable to stop British and American planes from attacking German aircraft factories and other industrial targets in large numbers at night.

Germany could not hope to win the war on the ground. Since the Soviet Union was so huge, the government set up factories hundreds of miles away from the fighting in order to build aeroplanes, tanks, guns and other weapons for the Red Army. This meant that the Russians would eventually start to push the Germans back west, especially after they defeated the Germans in great battles near the city of Kursk and in the city of Stalingrad itself (Volgograd). The Germans also failed to conquer the city of Leningrad, which was also a key battle.

On January 1 1945 the Luftwaffe launched a desperate plan called operation 'Bodenplatte' (Baseplate), a dawn air attack aimed at multiple Allied air bases in Belgium & Holland. Over 800 German aircraft were rounded up with many veteran pilots retired from combat duty pressesd back into service.

The plan cost more than it was worth, with over 280 German planes lost and 213 irreplaceble pilots killed or captured. As with the fog of war, over 100 German planes were shot down by their own ground fire who were not in on the plan.

Germany became famous as the country which flew the first jet aeroplanes. In 1944, the Luftwaffe started to use the world’s first operational jet fighter plane, the Messerschmitt Me-262, even though the engines sometimes did not work properly. Once again, the shortage of materials needed to build the plane as well as the continuing bombing of Germany meant that not as many Me-262s were built as Germany would have liked. Even so, Germany also built and flew the world's first jet bomber, the Arado Ar 234, the world’s first fighter plane powered by a rocket, the Messerschmitt Me-163, the V-1 flying bomb, and V-2 rocket.

After the war the allies were quite impressed with Germany's technical know-how & got all they could from the vast array of Luftwaffe aircraft strewn across Germany.

Once again, the Allies prohibited Germany from having an air force. The Russians were in the eastern half of Germany, and this half became East Germany. The British, French and Americans were in the western half, and this half became West Germany. These became countries in their own right, and East Germany became a Russian puppet state. In case a new war started with Russia and East Germany as enemies, the Western Allies finally allowed West Germany to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO), an organization of western countries which wanted there to be peace throughout the world. NATO allowed West Germany to have an air force because the country was right next to East Germany.

Germany used military aircraft in war for the first time since 1945 when they supported British aircraft in the war in Kosovo in 1999, but many people still believed that Germany should never again go to war because of what had happened in the two world wars.

The Velvet Underground

The Velvet Underground was an American rock (not bebop) band. It was founded in 1964. 

The original line-up was Lou Reed, John Cale, Sterling Morrison and Maureen Tucker. They were discovered by the famous artist, Andy Warhol, who produced and designed the cover for their first album "The Velvet Underground and Nico", which paired them with another discovery of his, German model/singer, Nico. The album was never really a hit, but it is now considered a classic. 

Later, the group broke up with Warhol and Nico after being a part of Andy Warhol's Factory for a while. The group released several more albums, "White Light/White Heat" (1967), "The Velvet Underground" (1969), "Loaded" (1970), and "Squeeze" (which features none of the original members, 1973), before finally breaking up. Lou Reed later had a successful solo career and is considered one of the founders of the "punk" movement.


John F. Kennedy

John Fitzgerald Kennedy (May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963) often called JFK and Jack was an American politician. He was the 35th president of the United States from 1961 until his assassination in 1963. Before becoming president, he was a United States senator from Massachusetts from 1953 to 1960. He also was a member of the U.S House of Representatives from 1947 until 1953.

Kennedy was the second youngest president in U.S. history. He was also the youngest president in history to die while in office.

John Fitzgerald Kennedy was born at 83 Beals Street in the Coolidge Corner neighborhood in Brookline, Massachusetts on May 29, 1917. He was the second of nine children of Joseph P. Kennedy (1888–1969). His father was a businessman and later US ambassador in the United Kingdom from 1938 until 1940. His mother was Rose Fitzgerald (1890–1995). The family was Roman Catholic. 

Kennedy graduated from Harvard University with a Bachelor's Degree in International Relations. Before World War II began, he tried joining the U.S. Army, but was rejected because he had back problems; he instead joined the Navy. When his PT boat was sunk by a Japanese destroyer in 1943, he seriously injured his back. He still saved his surviving crew, for which he was later rewarded with a medal for his bravery.

He was elected to the US Congress in 1946, and the US Senate in 1952. He married Jacqueline Bouvier on September 12, 1953. The couple had four children; a stillborn daughter (b. 1956), Caroline (b. 1957), John (1960–1999) and Patrick, who was born prematurely in August 1963 and lived only for two days.

Kennedy was a member of the United States Democratic Party. He beat his Republican Party opponent, Richard Nixon, in the 1960 presidential election. Kennedy was the youngest president ever elected. He was also the first Roman Catholic President and the first president to win a Pulitzer Prize. Kennedy was a very good speaker and inspired a new generation of young Americans.

In the beginning of his term, he approved the CIA's plan to invade Cuba. After the invasion turned out to be a failure, the Cuban Missile Crisis began. During the crisis, Cuba ordered a lot of nuclear missiles from the Soviet Union. It was the closest the world was to having a nuclear war. Kennedy ordered US Navy ships to surround Cuba. He ended the crisis peacefully by making an agreement with the Soviet Union. They agreed that the Soviet Union would stop selling nuclear weapons to Cuba. In return, the U.S. would take its missiles out of Turkey and promise to never invade Cuba again.

He also created a plan called the New Frontier. This was a series of government programs, such as urban renewal, to help poor and working class people. He created the Peace Corps to help poor countries all over the world. He agreed to a large tax cut to help the economy. He also called for the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which would make discrimination and segregation illegal. Kennedy intended to reach a détente with Cuban Premier, Fidel Castro, and to withdraw all US military advisers from Vietnam.

On November 22, 1963, Kennedy was shot to death in Dallas, Texas by a sniper. He was being driven through the city in an open-top car, along with John Connally, the Governor of Texas. As the car drove into Dealey Plaza, shots were fired. Kennedy was shot once in the throat and once in the head. He was taken to Parkland Memorial Hospital away and he was pronounced dead at 1:00 p.m.

Lee Harvey Oswald, a former U.S. Marine, was the prime suspect in the murder, and he was arrested on the same day for the murder of a policeman called J. D. Tippit. Oswald denied shooting anyone and was killed two days later on November 24 by Jack Ruby.

Kennedy had a state funeral on November 25, three days after his murder, near to the White House. He was buried in Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington, Virginia.

After Kennedy died, Lyndon Johnson (his Vice President) took over and put many of Kennedy's ideas into law (see Great Society).

Kennedy was a very popular president and still is today. He is considered one of the greatest presidents, ranking highly in public surveys and opinion polls.

Jyväskylä

Jyväskylä (; ) is a city and municipality in Finland in the western part of the Finnish Lakeland. It is located about 150 km north-east from Tampere, the third largest city in Finland; and about 270 km north from Helsinki, the capital of Finland. The Jyväskylä sub-region includes Jyväskylä, Hankasalmi, Laukaa, Muurame, Petäjävesi, Toivakka, and Uurainen. Other border municipalities of Jyväskylä are Joutsa, Jämsä and Luhanka.

Jyväskylä is the largest city in the region of Central Finland and in the Finnish Lakeland; as of , Jyväskylä had a population of . The city has been one of the fastest-growing cities in Finland during the 20th century,
when in 1940, there were only 8,000 inhabitants in Jyväskylä.

Elias Lönnrot, the compiler of the Finnish national epic, the "Kalevala", gave the city the nickname "Athens of Finland". This nickname refers to the major role of Jyväskylä as an educational centre. The works of the most famous Finnish architect Alvar Aalto can be seen throughout the city. The city hosts the Neste Oil Rally Finland, which is part of the World Rally Championship. It is also home of the annual Jyväskylä Arts Festival.


Alfred Hitchcock

Sir Alfred Joseph Hitchcock (13 August 1899 – 29 April 1980) was a British movie director who later became an American citizen, but still kept his British citizenship. He mostly made mystery and suspense movies. Despite having a successful career, Hitchcock never won an Academy Award.

Hitchcock started his career in England, starting with silent movies in the 1920s. In the 1930s, he made some successful movies like "The Man Who Knew Too Much" (1934), "The 39 Steps" (1935), and "The Lady Vanishes" (1938). He then moved to the United States, to work in Hollywood. His first American movie was "Rebecca" (1940), which won an Academy Award. 

Some of his best known movies from the 1940s are "Spellbound" (1945) and "Notorious" (1946), which were inspired by psychoanalysis. His first movie in color was the experimental "Rope" (1948). "Strangers on a Train" (1951) was based on a novel by Patricia Highsmith. In the 1950s, he made three popular movies with Grace Kelly: "Dial M for Murder" (1954), "Rear Window" (1954), and "To Catch a Thief" (1955). In 1956, he made a new version of "The Man Who Knew Too Much", starring James Stewart and Doris Day. He returned to black-and-white, briefly, with "The Wrong Man" (1957). Then came "Vertigo" (1958), which some consider his best suspense movie. It was followed by three more successful movies: "North by Northwest" (1959), "Psycho" (1960), and "The Birds" (1963). After that, he only made 5 more movies: "Marnie" (1964), "Torn Curtain" (1966), "Topaz" (1969), "Frenzy" (1972), and "Family Plot" (1976). In 1971, he became the very first winner of the BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award. This is an award for lifetime achievement.

In 1945 Hitchcock made a documentary about the Holocaust. It will be shown on British television in 2015.

Hitchcock appeared very quickly in small roles in most of his movies.

He also hosted a TV show, "Alfred Hitchcock Presents".

Hithcock was born in Leytonstone, Essex. He was a Roman Catholic. He was married to Alma Reville, who helped write some of his movies. They had a daughter, Patricia. He died in Bel Air, Los Angeles.

Alfred Hitchcock, a famous filmmaker, used several unique elements in his movies. These included the MacGuffin, suspense, cameos, music, blonde leading ladies, close-ups, macabre themes, twist endings, specific locations, and unreliable narrators. These elements contributed to his enduring legacy in the world of cinema.

Silent films


Sound films


1659

1659 was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar.



