Flubber


Flubber is a 1997 American science-fiction comedy film directed by Les Mayfield (who had previously directed another John Hughes scripted remake, "Miracle on 34th Street") and written by Hughes, based on an earlier screenplay by Bill Walsh. A remake of "The Absent-Minded Professor" (1961), the film was produced by Walt Disney Pictures and stars Robin Williams, Marcia Gay Harden, Christopher McDonald, Ted Levine, Raymond J. Barry, Wil Wheaton, and Clancy Brown with Madeline Kahn providing a voice. The film grossed $178 million worldwide despite negative reviews. In selected theaters, the "Pepper Ann" episode "Old Best Friend" was featured before the film.

Mary Wollstonecraft

Mary Wollstonecraft (27 April 1759 – 10 September 1797) was a British writer. She was born in Spitalfields, a daughter of a rich farmer who inherited his fortune. Her father was known because he was sometimes violent towards her, her four siblings, and their mother when his farms failed. Mary Wollstonecraft was the second oldest child in her family. She was the oldest female child. She left home at the age of nineteen to work and become independent.

Working in the English city of Bath, Somerset, she developed a disliking for the upper class and their social lives. In 1784 she experienced the near death of her sister Eliza who was also the victim of abuse at the hands of her husband. She escaped with her sister to London to preserve her life. Soon after, her good friend Fanny Blood, died of complications in childbirth. Wollstonecraft suffered depression following this and being in financial straits, she began to write her first book "Thoughts on the Education of Daughters". Then she wrote "".

Wollstonecraft was not only a writer, she was an early feminist and social campaigner. She wrote a children's book as well as her two most famous books "A Vindication of the Rights of Man" (1790), a response to the French Revolution, and "A Vindication of the Rights of Woman" (1792) which argued that women should have the same rights and education as men. She called for equal education for boys and girls, believing that education gives the tools necessary to compete with men in public and economic life.

She followed writers such as Catherine Macaulay who wrote "Letters on Education" in 1790, Thomas Paine, and John Locke. One of her most well-known books was "An Historical and Moral View of the Origin and Progress of the French Revolution (1794). She also wrote "The Wrongs of Women", a novel telling of the confines and illusion of marriage and child rearing as the only happiness for women. She was revolutionary in arguing for education and the need for autonomy for women.

Wollstonecraft travelled to Paris in 1792 to take notes on the Revolution. While in Paris, she fell in love with Gilbert Imlay, an American who she later followed to London. She tried to commit suicide when their relationship ended but was rescued from the Thames. She wrote a book titled "Letters Written During a Short Residence in Sweden, Norway, and Denmark" (1796) from a series of letters written to Imlay, to support their daughter Fanny Imlay, born in 1794. In the same year, Wollstonecraft met an old acquaintance and philosopher, William Godwin. They later married.

Wollstonecraft gave birth to their daughter on 30 August 1797. They named her Mary Wollstonecraft Godwin. The child later became wife of Percy Shelley. Mary Wollstonecraft Godwin became Mary Shelley, the author of "Frankenstein".

Wollstonecraft died of complications after labour due to a blood clot. Mary Wollstonecraft died of sepsis in London after her birth and suffered a similar fate as her best friend Fanny Blood whose death inspired her fight for women's rights and her first book.

Her husband William Godwin published "Memoirs of the Author of "A vindication of the Rights of Women"" in memory of her in 1798. 

Isle of Wight

The Isle of Wight is an island county that is just off the south coast of England. It is about 40 kilometres (25 miles) by 20 kilometres (13 miles) in size. About one hundred and twenty thousand people live on the island.

The Isle of Wight is a county. This means that it has a council of people who make decisions about some things that affect the people who live there. Until 1890 it was part of the administrative county of Hampshire. The county town of the island, which is the place where the council work, is "Newport".

Many people like to go on holiday on the island. There are many hotels and tourist attractions. Queen Victoria often visited the Isle of Wight where she owned a large mansion called Osborne House. Tourism is the most important industry on the island.

Over half of the island is officially designated as an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty. It is widely recognised as the most important site in Europe for finding dinosaur remains, and is a UNESCO Biosphere Reserve.

From 2024 health services on the island will be delivered by the newly formed ‘Hampshire and Isle of Wight Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust’, made by joining the Solent NHS Trust, Southern Health NHS Foundation Trust and Isle of Wight Trust.

Socks (disambiguation)

Sock or socks could mean:


Alzheimer's disease

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a brain disease that slowly destroys brain cells. As of now, there is no cure for Alzheimer's disease. With time, the different symptoms of the disease become more marked. Many people die because of Alzheimer's disease. The disease affects different parts of the brain but has its worst effects on the areas of the brain that control memory, language, and thinking skills. Alzheimer's Disease is the most common form of senile dementia accounting for up to 70% of cases.

The clinical symptoms of AD usually occurs after age 65, but changes in the brain which do not cause symptoms and are caused by Alzheimer's, may begin years or in some cases decades before. Although the symptoms of AD begin in older people it is not a normal part of aging.

At this time there is no cure for Alzheimer's, but there are treatments that can help some patients with the signs and symptoms so they do not affect them as badly. There are also treatments which slow down the disease so the damage to the brain does not happen as quickly. There are also certain personal habits that people can learn which may help to delay the onset of the disease.

While it is not yet known exactly what causes Alzheimer's disease, there are a number of risk factors which may make a person more likely to get it. Some of these risk factors are genetic; changes to four different genes have been found which increase the risk.

The current lifetime risk for a 65-year-old person to get Alzheimer's disease is estimated to be at 10.5%. It is the sixth leading cause of death in the United States causing about 83,500 deaths a year. In 2007, there were over 26.6 million people throughout the world who were affected by AD.

Alzheimer's disease was named after Alois Alzheimer, a German psychiatrist and neuropathologist who first described the disease after studying the case of a middle-aged woman, Auguste Deter, who was a patient at a hospital in Frankfurt, Germany in 1906. The disease was named "Alzheimer's disease" in 1910 by Dr. Emil Kraepilin a co-worker of Alzheimer.

Two of the main features found in the brains of people with of Alzheimer's disease, are "neurobrillary tangles" ('tangles' for short), which are made up of a "protein" called "tau", and "senile plaques" (which are made mostly from another protein called "beta-amyloid", they are also sometimes called "beta-amyloid bundles" or 'bundles' for short). The tau proteins that form the tangles previously held together a structure inside the neurons called a "microtubule" which is an important part of the neuron; it forms part of the "cytoskeleton" (cell skeleton) which is what maintains a cell's shape, and microtubules plays a part in cell communication.

Both tangles and plaques may be caused by other diseases, such as Herpes simplex virus Type 1 which is being investigated as a possible cause or contributor in developing Alzheimer's. It is not known for sure if tangles and plaques are part of what causes Alzheimer's, or if they are the results.

Microtubules
Microtubules are made of a protein called "tubulin". The tubulin is "polymerized", which is when molecules form the same shapes over and over again that are linked together in groups, and these groups are linked together. They can form long chains or other shapes; in this case the polymerized tubulin forms microtubules. The microtubules are rigid tubes like microscopic straws which are hollow inside. Microtubules help keep the shape of the neuron, and are inolved in passing signals through the neuron.

Tau
Tau is a protein that is found mostly in the neurons of the central nervous system. They help hold together the "microtubules" within the neurons. and when changes happen in the way the tau proteins are supposed to work the microtubules break apart. The tau proteins which are no longer holding the microtubules together form strands called "fibrils", which then clump together inside the neuron to make what are called neurofibrillary tangles . These clumps, also known as 'tau tangles', are all that remain after a neuron has died. 

Beta-amyloid 
Beta-amyloid(Aβ) (also called 'amyloid beta') plaques start with a protein called amyloid precursor protein (APP). APP is one of the proteins that make up a cell's membrane or outer covering, that protects the cell. In this case a neuron.. As it is made inside the cell, APP sticks out through the membrane of the cell.

In different parts of the of cell including the outermost part of the cell membrane, chemicals called enzymes snip the APP into small pieces. These enzymes that do the snipping are alpha-secretase, beta-secretase, and gamma-secretase. Depending on which enzyme is doing the snipping and what parts of the APP are snipped, two different things can happen. One that is helpful and one that causes the formation of beta-amyloid plaques.

The plaques are formed when beta-secretase snips the APP molecule at one end of the beta-amyloid peptide, releasing sAPPβ from the cell. Gamma-secretase then cuts the pieces of APP that is left and, still sticking out of the neuron’s membrane, at the other end of the beta-amyloid peptide. After this snipping the beta-amyloid peptide is released into the space outside the neuron and begins to stick to other beta-amyloid peptides. These pieces stick together to form "oligomers". Different oligomers of various sizes are now floating around in the spaces between the neurons, which may be responsible for reacting with receptors on neighboring cells and synapses, affecting their ability to function.

Some of these oligomers are cleared from the brain. Those that are not cleared out clump together with more pieces of beta-amyloid. As more pieces clump togther the oligomers get bigger larger, and the next size up are called "protofibrils" and the next size after that are called fibrils. After a while, these fibrils clump together with other protein molecules, neurons and non-nerve cells floating around in the space between the cells and form what are called plaques.

Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA)

Deposits of beta-amyloid also form in the walls (in the "tunica media", the middle layer, and "tunica adventitia" or "tunica externa", the outer layer) of small and mid-sized arteries (and sometimes veins) in the cerebral cortex and the "leptomeninges" (the "leptomeninges" are the two inner layers - pia mater and arachnoid - of the "meninges", a protective 3-layer membrane covering the brain.)

CAA is found in 30% of people over the age of 60 years who do not have any dementia but is found in 90%-96% of people with Alzheimer disease and is severe in one third to two thirds of these cases.

The first area of the brain to be affected by Alzheimer's is the "transentorhinal region" which is part of the "medial temporal lobe" located deep within the brain. Neurons start dying in this area first. It then spreads into the adjacent entorhinal cortex (EC) which acts as a central hub, for a widespread network that handles signals for memory and movement(like a main train station with train tracks going to different areas). 

The EC is the main area for communication between the hippocampus, and the neocortex - which is the outer portion of the brain responsible for higher functioning such as how the brain perceives information from the five senses; (smell, sight, taste, touch and hearing; Ex. seeing a person's face and recognizing them,) generating motor commands (Ex, moving and arm or leg, walking, running) spatial reasoning, conscious thought and language.

The disease then spreads into the hippocampus which is part of the limbic system. The hippocampus is the part of the brain that is involved in forming new memories, organizing them, and storing them for later recall. It is also where emotions and senses, such as smell and sound are attached to specific memories. Example 1.: A memory might make you happy or sad. Example 2.: A smell might bring up a certain memory.

The hippocampus then sends memories to the different parts of the cerebral hemisphere where they are placed in long-term storage and it helps retrieve them when necessary. Example: An adult trying to remember the name of a classmate from kindergarten.

In addition to handling memory the hippocampus is also involved in emotional responses, navigation (getting around) and spatial orientation (knowing your sense of place as you move around Example: Knowing your way around your bedroom even with the lights off).

There are actually two parts of the hippocampus which is shaped like a horseshoe with one in the left part of the brain and the other in the right part of the brain.

Preclinical
With current research using advances in neuroimaging such as FDG-PET and PIB-PET scans, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) assays, it is now possible to detect the beginning processes of Alzheimer's disease that occur before symptoms begin. The research suggests that clinically normal older people (no symptoms at all) have "biomarker" evidence of amyloid beta (Aβ) build-up in the brain. This amyloid beta (Aβ) is linked to changes in the structure of the brain and how it works that is the similar to what is seen in people with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) - which may lead to Alzheimer's - and people with Alzheimer's.

These small preclinical changes (no symptoms) in the brain may occur many years, to even a few decades before a person is diagnosed with Alzheimer's. With a stage where there is some memory loss, or mild cognitive impairment. These changes put a person at risk of developing the clinical symptoms of full-blown Alzheimer's but not everyone who has these changes will get the disease. Even though there is no cure for Alzheimer's, there are new treatments which are being developed which would work better in the very first stages of the disease.

At this time exactly what makes up the preclinical phase of Alzheimer's is still being researched, such as why some people with go on to develop Alzheimer's and others do not. So the term "preclinical phase" is being used for research only. There is a worldwide effort in various countries doing research in this area known as the World Wide Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (WW-ADNI) which is the umbrella organization for neuroimaging studies being carried out through the North American ADNI, European ADNI (E-ADNI), Japan ADNI, Australian ADNI (AIBL), Taiwan ADNI, Korea ADNI, China ADNI and Argentina ADNI.

Beginning stages

"Misdiagnosis in very early stages of Alzheimer's is a significant problem, as there are more than 100 conditions that can mimic the disease. In people with mild memory complaints, our accuracy is barely better than chance," according to study researcher P. Murali Doraiswamy, MBBS, professor of psychiatry and medicine at Duke Medicine, "Given that the definitive gold standard for diagnosing Alzheimer's is autopsy, we need a better way to look into the brain."

In 1901, a 51-year-old woman named Auguste Deter, was committed to the City Asylum for the Insane and Epileptic, ("Städtischen Anstalt für Irre und Epileptische") in Frankfurt am Main, Germany which had the nickname "Irrenschloss" (Castle of the Insane). She was married and had a normal life until eight months prior to her commitment, when she started having psychological and neurological problems, such as problems with memory and language, paranoia, becoming disorientated and having hallucinations.

She was studied by a doctor on staff named Alois Alzheimer (1864–1915). Alzheimer became interested in her case because of her age; while the effects of senile dementia were known at the time, they usually did not start until a person was in their early to mid-sixties. Her case was also notable because of the rapid onset of dementia, only eight months, from the first reported symptoms, until she was committed.

While conducting one of his examinations of Ms. Deter, he asked her to perform a series of simple writing tasks. Unable to do what was asked such as write her name, she said "I have lost myself, so to speak" (""Ich habe mich sozusagen selbst verloren"").

Alzheimer left the hospital in Franfkurt in 1902 to begin working with Emil Kraepelin at the Psychiatric University Hospital in Heidelberg-Bergheim, and in 1903 both he and Kraepelin began working at Ludwig Maximilian University in Munich.

When Ms. Deter died of septicemia on 8 April 1906, Alzheimer was informed and her brain was sent to Munich for him to study. Studying samples of her brain under a microscope he noticed neurofibriallry tangles and bundles made up of beta-amyloid plaque, which are two of the main features of the disease. On 3 November 1906, Alzheimer presented the results of his findings in Auguste's case at the Conference of South-West German Psychiatrists in Tübingen, and he published his findings in the case in 1907.

In 1910, Emil Kraepelin named the disease 'Alzheimer's disease'. Alzheimer's disease usually beigins affecting people between ages 60–65, in Ms. Deter's case - who was 55-years-old when she died - she had a form of what is now known as "Early-onset Alzhiemer's disease".

Anyone can get Alzheimer's disease, rich people or poor famous people and unfamous people. Some of the famous people who have gotten Alzheimer's disease are former United States President Ronald Reagan and Irish writer Iris Murdoch, both of whom were the subjects of scientific articles examining how their cognitive capacities got worse with the disease.

Other cases include the retired footballer Ferenc Puskás, the former Prime Ministers Harold Wilson (United Kingdom) and Adolfo Suárez (Spain), the actress Rita Hayworth, the Nobel Prize-winner Raymond Davis, Jr., the actors Charlton Heston and Gene Wilder, the novelist Terry Pratchett, politician and activist Sargent Shriver, the Blues musician B.B. King, director Jacques Rivette, Indian politician George Fernandes,
and the 2009 Nobel Prize in Physics recipient Charles K. Kao. In 2012, Nobel Prize writer Gabriel García Márquez was diagnosed with the disease. Former Finnish President Mauno Koivisto died of the disease in May 2017. Country singer Glen Campbell died of the disease in August 2017.


Elaine Paige

Elaine Paige OBE (born Elaine Jill Bickerstaff, 5 March 1948) is an English actress and singer. She was born and raised in Barnet, Hertfordshire. She is known for her roles in musical theater.
She worked in the theatre from a young age. She quickly became famous in the role of Eva Perón in the musical "Evita" in 1978. She studied acting at the Aida Foster stage school in London and then played roles in the British tour of the show "The Roar of the Greasepaint, the Smell of the Crowd" and the first London production of "Hair". She played Sandy in the London production of "Grease" and appeared as one of Michael Crawford's girlfriends in "Billy". She has since said she was about to leave the world of acting, possibly to become a teacher, but then the role in "Evita" was offered to her.

After "Evita", she did not have any work for a period. She thought that her musical career had seen its best. When the actress Judi Dench had an injury during rehearsals for "Cats", the producers asked Paige play the role in stead of Dench. They stated that the role "was not another "Evita"" and that her role only had one and a half songs. Fortunately, the song was "Memory", which was a top 10 hit for Paige and has become her signature song.

After "Cats", she appeared in "Abbacadbra", an ABBA compilation, and "Chess", also written by Benny Andersson and Björn Ulvaeus of ABBA but with lyrics by Tim Rice, co-writer of "Evita". Paige then scored a number 1 single, "I Know Him So Well", a song from "Chess", as a duet with Barbara Dickson.

In 1989, she co-produced and starred in a production of Cole Porter's "Anything Goes" in London, which made a star of John Barrowman. In the early 1990s, her relationship with the lyricist Tim Rice stopped and Paige tried an image change by recording an album with a California-based producer in the Bette Midler style entitled "Love Can Do That". Her solo albums had so far been a variety of songs, including the very successful "Stages" in 1983, with songs from musical theatre. In 1993, she returned to the United States to work with Peter Matz on an album called "Romance and the Stage" featuring songs from earlier days of musical theatre. The following year, she recorded, "Piaf", which had music from the role she was playing in the Pam Gems play, also called "Piaf". Critics were impressed by her acting skills in that play. 

However, in 1995 she had a role in another musical, playing Norma Desmond in Andrew Lloyd Webber's "Sunset Boulevard". She had always wanted to perform on Broadway and "Sunset Boulevard" now made this possible. For more than a year she played the role. She later had another role in 2000 with the "King and I". She has recently moved more into television and radio work.

Paige was awarded an OBE in 1995. Now she is hosting a Sunday afternoon BBC Radio 2 show which plays music from the stage and film.


Marti Webb

Marti Webb is a British actress and singer born in London in 1944.

She has notably played roles in musical theatre including "Evita", "Cats", "Godspell", "The King and I", "Annie", "Thoroughly Modern Millie", "The Goodbye Girl" and "Song and Dance".

She first came to prominence with the song cycle "Tell Me on a Sunday" which was written for her by Don Black and Andrew Lloyd Webber. Webb recently returned to the show after it was revamped for Denise Van Outen in the West End before she took it on a UK tour.

Yahtzee

Yahtzee is a popular dice game that is well-known all over the world. The object of the game is to roll five dice (up to three times) to create certain combinations such as:


Most of these combinations come from poker.

Tim Rice

Sir Timothy Miles Bindon "Tim" Rice (born 10 November 1944) is an English songwriter and writer. He was born in 1944. Rice is probably best known for his work with Andrew Lloyd Webber on the shows "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat", "Jesus Christ Superstar", and "Evita". He also co-wrote the shows "Blondel", "Chess" and the English lyrics for "Starmania".

He had a long-term relationship in the 1980s with the actress Elaine Paige.

In 2018, Rice became one of fifteen people to win an Oscar, Grammy, Tony and Emmy Award.

Evita (musical)

Evita is a musical. The lyrics were written by Tim Rice. The music was composed by Andrew Lloyd Webber. The musical is based on the life of Eva Perón (1919-1952), the wife of Argentinian President Juan Perón, which Che is telling.

"Evita" opened on the West End in 1978, and on Broadway in 1979. It won the Laurence Olivier Award for Best New Musical and the Tony Award for Best Musical. In 1996, a movie version was released starring Madonna.

Sunset Boulevard (movie)

Sunset Boulevard is a 1950 American black comedy film noir movie about a screenwriter (William Holden) accompanying a retired Hollywood silent movie actress (Gloria Swanson) who wants to return to acting in movies. It was nominated for eleven Academy Awards and won three. For Andrew Lloyd Webber's musical theater, it starred Patti LuPone, Glenn Close, Betty Buckley and Elaine Paige.


1785

1785 was a common year.




