Brighton


Brighton is a city on the south coast of England. It was called "Brighthelmstone". It is in the county of East Sussex. In 2000, it joined Hove to become the city of Brighton & Hove. Historically, Brighton forms the main part of the Brighton/Worthing/Littlehampton conurbation, with 474,485 inhabitants (2011 census). This is England's 12th largest conurbation, and the mostly densely populated area outside London.

From the 1730s, Brighton entered its second phase of development—one which brought a rapid improvement in its fortunes. The fad for bathing in seawater as a cure for illnesses was encouraged. From the 1760s it was a boarding point for boats travelling to France. Road transport to London was improved when the main road via Crawley was turnpiked in 1770. Spas and indoor baths were opened by physicians.

From 1780, development of Georgian terraced houses started. The fishing village developed to the fashionable resort of Brighton. Growth of the town was encouraged by the patronage of the Prince Regent (later King George IV) after his first visit in 1783. He spent much of his leisure time in the town, and had the Royal Pavilion built during the early part of his Regency.

The arrival of the London and Brighton Railway in 1841 brought Brighton within the reach of day-trippers from London. Some major attractions such as the West Pier and the Brighton Palace Pier were built for the growing number of tourists. The population grew from around 7,000 in 1801 to more than 120,000 by 1901.

In 1984, a Provisional Irish Republican Army bombing killed five people.

Modern-day Brighton is a centre for education, sports, and recreation. It has two universities: University of Sussex and the University of Brighton. It also has 54 other schools. 

In 2003, the universities of Sussex and Brighton formed a medical school, known as Brighton and Sussex Medical School. Brighton has a thriving LGBT community and every year in the first weekend in August Pride festivities are held.


Vincent van Gogh

Vincent Willem van Gogh (30 March 1853 – 29 July 1890) was a Dutch post-impressionist painter. His work had a great influence on modern art because of its striking colours and emotional power. He suffered from delusions and fits of mental illness. When he was 37, he died by committing suicide.

When he was a young man, Van Gogh worked for a company of art dealers. He traveled between The Hague, London and Paris. After that, he taught in England. He then wanted to become a pastor and spread the Gospel, and from 1879 he worked as a missionary in a mining place in Belgium. He began drawing the people there, and in 1885, he painted his first important work, "The Potato Eaters". He usually painted in dark colors at this time. In March 1886, he moved to Paris and found out about the French impressionists. Later, he moved to the south of France, and the colors in his art became brighter. His special style of art was developed and later fully grown during the time he stayed in Arles in 1888.

He was born Vincent Willem van Gogh on 30 March 1853 in Groot-Zundert, Netherlands. His father, Theodorus van Gogh, was a pastor. His mother, Anna Cornelia Carbentus, was an artist. Van Gogh was brought up in a religious and cultured family. He was very emotional and he did not have a great deal of self-confidence. He was also a replacement child. He was born a year after the death of his brother, also named Vincent. He even had the same birthday. Living at the church rectory Vincent walked past the grave of his dead brother every day. There has been speculation that van Gogh suffered later psychological trauma as a result, but this cannot be proved.

Between 1860 and 1880, when he finally decided to become an artist, van Gogh had two sad romances. He also had worked unsuccessfully in a bookstore, as an art salesman, and a preacher. He remained in Belgium, where he had preached, to study art. The works of his early Dutch period are sad, sharp, and one of the most famous pictures from here is "The Potato Eaters", painted in 1885. In that year, van Gogh went to Antwerp where he found the works of famous artists and bought a lot of Japanese prints.

In 1886 he went to Paris to join his brother Theo, who was the manager of Goupil's gallery. In Paris, van Gogh studied with Cormon. He also met Pissarro, Monet, and Gauguin. This helped the colors of his paintings lighten and be painted in short strokes from the paintbrush. His nervous temper made him a difficult companion and night-long discussions combined with painting all day made him very unhealthy. He decided to go south to Arles where he hoped his friends would join him and help found a school of art. Gauguin did join him, but it did not help. Near the end of 1888, Gauguin left Arles. Van Gogh followed him with an open razor, but was stopped by Gauguin. Instead, he cut his own ear lobe off. After that, van Gogh began to get fits of madness and was sent to the asylum in Saint-Remy for medical treatment. He painted over 1,000 portraits.
In May 1890, he regained his health and went to live in Auvers-sur-Oise. However, two months later on 27 July, he shot himself in the chest with a revolver. He died two days later, with Theo at his side. Theo reported his last words as ""La tristesse durera toujours"", which meant, "The sadness will last forever" in French.

During his brief career he had only sold one painting. After his death, Van Gogh's finest works were all sold in less than three years. His mother threw away a lot of his paintings during his life and even after his death. But she lived long enough to see him become a world famous painter. He was not well known when he was alive, and most people did not appreciate his art. But he became very famous after his death. Today, many people consider him to be one of the greatest painters in history and an important influence on modern art. Van Gogh did not begin painting until he was almost 30. Most of his famous works were done in his last two years. He made more than 2,000 artworks, with 900 paintings and 1,100 drawings and sketches. Today, many of his pieces portraits, landscapes and sunflowers are some of the most famous and costly works of art in the world. Probably the most famous being "The Starry Night" done in 1889, which he is most known for.


Rainbow

A rainbow is an arc of colour in the sky that can be seen when the sun shines through falling rain. The pattern of colours, called a spectrum, starts with red on the outside and changes through orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet on the inside. Sometimes a second, larger, dimmer rainbow is seen.

A rainbow is created when white light is bent (refracted) while entering a droplet of water, split into separate colours, and reflected back. A rainbow is actually round like a circle. On the ground, the bottom part is hidden, but in the sky, like from a flying airplane, it can be seen as a circle around the point opposite the Sun. 

Rainbows often appear after storms, and are popular symbols for peace in many cultures.

The rainbow effect can be seen when there are water drops in the air and the sun is giving light at the back of the observer at a low distance up or angle.
Rainbows always appear opposite the Sun: they form circles around the shadow of your head (which is the point opposite the Sun).

While sunlight is white, all white light is actually a blend of many different colours. Water and other materials bend the different colours at different angles, some more strongly than others. This is called dispersion. By splitting up white light into its separate colours, rainbows appear colourful even though the source of light hitting them is white.

The rainbow displays with the deepest effect in our minds take place when:
Another common place to see the rainbow effect is near waterfalls. Parts of rainbows can be seen some of the time:

An unnatural rainbow effect can also be made by spraying drops of water into the air on a sunny day.
"Main article: ROYGBIV"

The rainbow has no definite number of physical colours, but seven are traditionally listed. Below is a commonly used list of seven colors in the order seen in a rainbow. Computer screens cannot show them precisely but can make colors that look similar. (Each color shows the number codes used to tell a computer how to display the color.) 

<li style = "background-color: #755496;"> Violet-gray
(Hex: #755496) (RGB: 117, 84, 152)<li>

Central Intelligence Agency

The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) is part of the US federal government and is located at the George Bush Center for Intelligence in Langley, Virginia. The agency was formed in 1947 after World War II. Many of the people who started the CIA had been in the Office of Strategic Services, the main American spy agency during the war. General John K. Singlaub was one of the people who created the CIA. 

The United States has a history in intelligence services dating back to its origins. During the American Revolution, George Washington and other Founding Fathers of the United States such as Benjamin Franklin, Robert Morris, and Patrick Henry used espionage networks. 

The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency has been William Joseph Burns since March 19th, 2021. 

The CIA is made up of four groups, which do different things. Its goal is to protect the US people. Many people feel that the CIA does more bad than good. Other people say that the CIA does good by finding out secret information about enemies of the United States. Others think those secrets should remain secret. American law makes it illegal for the CIA and other agencies to kill foreign leaders. 

In 1992, Saddam Hussein tried to kill US President George H. W. Bush, who used to be director of the CIA, during a visit to Kuwait. The assassination plot failed. In revenge, President Bill Clinton ordered cruise missiles to be fired at the building of the Iraqi equivalent to the CIA. That occurred at night and so only the cleaners were killed, not those who had planned the assassination.

CIA has many clandestine, or secret, operations. Some CIA employees have been killed during their work. Their names are on a CIA memorial with a star for them, but some of the names are still secret. The number of stars is deliberately inaccurate. 

The CIA also uses open sources to gather information. Analysts read foreign newspapers and watch foreign news broadcasts to learn information, which can be pieced together to make a conclusion.

The CIA used to report to the President. After the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States, a reorganization made the CIA and other intelligence agencies report to a Director of National Intelligence.

The CIA has been featured in many television and film productions, including the American television show "The Agency," the American television mini-series "The Company," the film "Spy Game" that stars Robert Redford and Brad Pitt, "Night Flight to Moscow" that stars Yul Brenner, "Scorpio" that stars Burt Lancaster, "Clear and Present Danger" that stars Harrison Ford; "Ice Station Zebra," and several James Bond films that featured the CIA agent Felix Leiter.


1975

1975 (MCMLXXV) was .











