Simon &amp; Garfunkel


Paul Simon and Art Garfunkel were an American folk and rock music duo. They were two childhood friends, who became famous in the 1960s. Their songs, including "Mrs. Robinson", "So Long, Frank Lloyd Wright", "The Sound of Silence", and "Bridge Over Troubled Water", all composed by Simon, are still popular to this day.

Their free concert in New York City's Central Park in 1981 was the biggest concert ever, with 500,000 people (about the same number as Woodstock).

The band broke up in 1970.


Madagascar

Madagascar is a large island nation in the Indian Ocean. It is off of the East coast of Africa and its capital is Antananarivo. Twenty-two million people live there. It is the world's fourth largest island. 

The official languages of Madagascar are Malagasy and French.

About two hundred million years ago, Madagascar was a part of a huge supercontinent called Pangaea. When this broke up, Madagascar was attached to what is now the Indian subcontinent. Madagascar broke away from India and moved closer to Africa. 

The long history of separation from other continents has allowed plants and animals on the island to evolve in relative isolation. Many of its animals came from Africa, because the island is closer to Africa than to India. Many of these endemic Malagasy animals have died out since the arrival of humans, particularly the megafauna.

Despite this, and massive deforestation, Madagascar is still home to an incredible array of wildlife. Most of the wildlife is unique.

Madagascar is home to many species that were not known to Europeans about until around 1679 when Dutch explorers went there. They do not exist elsewhere in Africa. They only exist in Madagascar. In fact, most of the mammals living in Madagascar do not live anywhere else in the world. 

Many species in Madagascar are in danger because much of the forest has been cut down. Forests are cut down so the land can grow crops such as coffee, which is an important export crop for Madagascar.

Agriculture is a big part of the economy in Madagascar, including the growing of coffee and vanilla. Madagascar sells more vanilla than any other country in the world. Madagascar also makes money from tourism.

In 2004 Madagascar was divided into 22 regions. It used to be divided into 6 provinces.

People have probably lived in Madagascar for at least 2000 years.

France took over the city of Antananarivo in 1895, and added Madagascar as a colony two years later. Madagascar became independent on 26 June, 1960.



