Welsh


Welsh could mean many different things:

Welsh could also mean:

Places in the United States (US)

People

Watergate scandal

The Watergate scandal was a serious scandal during and after the 1972 presidential election. 

A United States President, Richard Nixon was running for election against Democrat George McGovern. Afterwards, Frank Wills, a security guard, discovered clues that former FBI and CIA agents broke into the offices of the Democratic Party and George McGovern months before the election. They secretly listened to phone lines and stole several important documents. 

When these men were found, they were discovered to have been associated with Nixon. He had helped them cover all the evidence of the scandal, and may have even hired the men to begin with. "The Washington Post" was a newspaper which played a big role in exposing the misdoings, specifically aided by reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein. This showed the public that Nixon was not as trustworthy as he seemed.

Nixon chose to resign from office on August 9, 1974 because he wished not to be impeached. This means that he might have been charged with crimes. The U.S. Congress could not impeach him if he resigned. After this, Gerald Ford became his vice-president because Spiro T. Agnew (Nixon's first vice-president) had to resign as well after unrelated charges of accepting bribes and avoiding taxes. Ford then became the President by default of Nixon using his power under the 25th Amendment to the U.S Constitution. Ford pardoned Nixon for all of his crimes later on. The name "Watergate" comes from the hotel in Washington, D.C. where the first crime and break in took place, and is often associated with political scandals.


Cyan

Cyan is the color halfway between blue and green on the color wheel. It is one of the primary (main) colors of ink in an inkjet printer, along with black, yellow and magenta.

Cyan is a secondary color of light, along with magenta and yellow. The primary colors of light are: blue, red and green. Cyan is made by mixing green and blue light.

Cyan is the opposite of red and is halfway between green and blue.


Purple

Purple is a color that is made of two primary colors, blue and red.

The first written use of "purple" as a color name in English was in 975.


These Tyrian purple colors, all of which are also shown in the color chart above, show the original purple of Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome. The color "imperial" shown below was made by mixing Tyrian purple with indigo dye.


La Liga Filipina

La Liga Filipina was a political group created by Doctor Jose Rizal on July 3, 1892 in the Philippines. The aims were:


Jose Rizal tried very hard to make it a peaceful group. But the Spanish authorities considered it dangerous. On the night of July 7, 1892, Rizal was secretly arrested four days after its creation. The following day, Governor-General Eulogio Despujol ordered Rizal to be deported to Dapitan.

After Rizal's arrest, La Liga Filipina became inactive. Then it was reorganized by Domingo Franco and Andres Bonifacio. The society broke apart into two separate groups: the Cuerpo de Compromisarios which promised to continue supporting the La Solidaridad in Spain and the Katipunan in the Philippines.

March 31

It is the last day of the first quarter of the year.












