1812


1812 was a leap year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar.


Zookeeper

A zookeeper is a worker in a zoo, responsible for the feeding and daily care of the animals. As part of this, they clean the exhibits and report signs of bad health. They may also be involved in scientific research, and in public education, conducting tours or simply answering questions put by members of the public.

Qualifications and pay of zookeepers both vary widely. A junior keeper in a small zoo may have no qualifications other than an affinity for the job, while a senior keeper in a large zoo would most probably have both a relevant college degree and extensive experience.

Generally, a liking for animals and outside work and willingness to undertake moderate and sometimes dirty physical work are required. Many animals are themselves heavy and strong-smelling, as is the food some of them eat. Handling such is part of the job at times.


Cage

A cage is a box which is made to keep something inside of, without it being able to get out (such as an animal). Cages are usually made of many metal bars.

A cage which has birds in it is called a "birdcage". 


Toddler

A toddler is a very young child who is learning how to use their hands, stand and walk, and also how to communicate with others. 

Most children are toilet trained while they are toddlers.
Even when toddlers can walk, they are often transported in a stroller, buggy, or pushchair when the walk is a long distance or when they're tired. Toddlerhood typically begins after age one and is over by the time the child is 4, but this can differ depending on the child. 


Ronald McDonald

Ronald McDonald is an American clown character who is a mascot of the McDonald's fast-food restaurant. 
He wears yellow and red stripes and has wacky hair. He lives in McDonaldland, with lots of his friends. The first actor to play Ronald McDonald was famous weatherman and Bozo the Clown actor Willard Scott. Later the actor for Coco the Clown, Michael Polakovs, redesigned Ronald McDonald's outfit and make-up, which is the version still used by today's Ronald McDonald actors. The fictional character is a heroic magical adventurer that stands up good and freedom, such as saving the rain forest and supporting Ronald McDonald House Charities.

McDonald's has many actors employed to portray Ronald McDonald in restaurants and events. It is assumed, however, that the company uses only one actor at a time to play the character in television commercials.

This is a list of these main actors:


An actor by the name of Joe Maggard stated in an interview of The Guardian in 2014 that he portrayed the Ronald McDonald character from 1995 to 2007. However, It was stated in a 2003 article by The Baltimore Sun that Maggard was only a stand-in actor for one commercial shoot in the mid 90s and stated that "he is definitely not Ronald McDonald", as Jack Doepke and David Hussey were the real current portrayers as Ronald throughout the time period Joe claimed he did. In 1998, he was charged of carrying a weapon in the New Hanover County, N.C., McDonalds and the next year he was convicted in making harassing telephone calls posing as Ronald. The judge ordered him to take anger management classes.

Bob Marley

Robert Nesta "Bob" Marley (February 6, 1945 May 11, 1981) was an important Jamaican singer-songwriter and musician in the 1970s and 1980s. He made the style of reggae music very popular all over the world. His music told stories of his home and the Rastafarian religion that he followed. Some songs were about religion and some songs were about politics like Get Up Stand Up.

Bob Marley was born on February 6, 1945 in Nine Mile, Saint Ann Parish, Jamaica to a black teenager, Cedella Booker, and a white man named Norvall Marley. When he was young, his friends gave him the nickname, "Tuff Gong". He started his music career in the 1960s with his group the Wailing Wailers (or simply the Wailers), that he formed with two friends, Peter Tosh and Bunny Wailer. In 1962, Bob Marley and the Wailing Wailers recorded their first two songs called "Judge Not" and "One Cup of Coffee".

Bob married Rita Anderson in 1966 and she joined the group as a back-up singer. They had five children together. One is Ziggy Marley, who is also a well-known reggae performer.

In 1974, the Wailers broke up because three of the band members wanted to pursue solo careers. Marley continued calling his band Bob Marley and the Wailers and joined together with new members to continue playing music. In 1975, Bob Marley had his first international hit called "No Woman No Cry". In Jamaica, he is considered a folk hero. Some other hits of his include "Three Little Birds", "Africa Unite", "Buffalo Soldier", and "One Love". His most popular studio album was called "Legend", which includes his greatest hits.

Bob Marley died on 11 May 1981, at Cedars of Lebanon Hospital in Miami, Florida, of melanoma. He was one of the followers of Rastafarianism 



