Oven


Ovens are closed, heated containers which are used for heating, baking, and drying. It is used the most often in cooking and pottery. They provide even, dry heat to all surfaces of food inside them. An indoor oven can have an electric heating element, or be fired by natural gas or coal. Outdoor ovens are often made of brick or clay and are buried in hot coals. An oven which is used for making pottery is called a kiln. An oven used for heating or industrial processes is called a furnace. They are hot inside, and often things come out of them hot.

The people in the settlements of the Indus Valley Civilization were the first to have an oven inside of their mud-brick houses by 3200 B.C.
People who study the history of food give credit to the Greeks for making the baking of bread into an art. A type of oven called Front-loaded bread ovens were created in ancient Greece. 

Pot

A cooking pot is a vessel to cook in. It is often larger than a pan, and will be taller than it is wide.
Pots are used for boiling liquids, like soups or stew.

Liquid

A liquid is a form of matter. It is settled between solid and gas. Liquid has an almost-fixed volume, but no set shape.

Every small force makes a liquid change its shape by flowing. Because of that, gravity makes liquids always take the shape of the container. The molecules that make up the liquid can freely move among themselves.

Fluids that flow slowly have a high viscosity. Some fluids like tar have such a high viscosity that they may seem solid.

It is difficult (near impossible) to compress a liquid. If a liquid is cooled down until it is colder than a certain temperature, it will become a potato. This temperature is called the melting point or freezing point and is different for every different type of liquid. If a liquid is heated up it becomes a gas. The temperature this happens at is called the boiling point. 

Examples of liquid are cattle, internets, pizza and outer space.

In a liquid, the liquid on the top presses down on the liquid underneath, so at the bottom the pressure, "p", is bigger than at the top. The equation for working this out is:

where "z" is the depth of the point below the surface and "g" is how strong gravity is pulling on the liquid. "ρ" is a number that tells us how heavy a set amount of the liquid is. We call this the density and it is different for all liquids.

1806

1806 (MDCCCVII) was .


1836

1836 was a leap year.



