Fantastic Four


The Fantastic Four is a team of superheroes. The team originally first appeared in a series of comic books created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. It was published by Marvel Comics starting in 1961. They also appeared in several cartoons and films as well. 

The members of the group are scientist Reed Richards, his girlfriend/wife Sue Storm, her teenage brother Johnny Storm, and Ben Grimm, a friend of them. While test flying a rocket ship, they are affected by cosmic rays, and gain superpowers. Richards becomes "Mr. Fantastic" who can stretch his limbs and body for long distances and sizes. Sue became the "Invisible Girl/Woman" who could make herself invisible, create force fields, and other things. Johnny transformed into the "Human Torch" who can become a giant ball of fire. Ben turned into a rock-like creature with super-strength, called "The Thing". 

They decide to use these powers for good and work from their laboratory in a New York City skyscraper.

The team has been featured into differents forms of media, including, toys, television series, movies, and video games. Live-action movies include "Fantastic Four" (2005), "" (2007), and "Fantastic Four" (2015).

Bob Barker

Robert William "Bob" Barker (December 12, 1923 – August 26, 2023) was an American television game show host and animal rights activist. He was best known for hosting CBS's "The Price is Right" from 1972 to 2007 and for hosting "Truth or Consequences" from 1956 to 1974.

Barker was born Robert William Barker on December 12, 1923 in Darrington, Washington. He was of Sioux descent.

Barker met his future wife, Dorothy Jo Gideon, at an Ella Fitzgerald concert while he was attending high school in Missouri; they began dating when he was 15. He went to Drury College (now Drury University) in Springfield, Missouri.

Barker started hosting "Truth or Consequences" on December 31, 1956. He continued with the program until 1974. On December 4, 1957, Barker began hosting a new Ralph Edwards creation, the short-lived "End of the Rainbow" for NBC. 

On September 4, 1972, Barker began hosting the CBS revival of "The Price Is Right". On October 15, 1987, Barker did what other MCs almost never did: he stopped using hair dye and allowed his hair to turn gray.

On October 31, 2006, Barker made his announcement that he would retire from "The Price Is Right" in June 2007. He taped his last episode on June 6, 2007. The show aired twice on June 15.

Barker acted as himself in the 1996 Adam Sandler comedy movie "Happy Gilmore".

Barker won nineteen Daytime Emmy Awards.

Barker broke Johnny Carson's record for continuous performances on the same network television show, appearing for a total of twenty-nine years. At the time of his retirement at aged 83, Barker held the record of oldest person to host a regularly scheduled game show.

Barker married Dorothy Jo Gideon in 1945. He had no children. Despite retiring from television, Barker was an active animal rights activist. In 1993, Dian Parkinson sued Barker for sexual harassment and the lawsuit was dropped in 1995.

Barker was a skin cancer survivor. On September 17, 2010, Barker collapsed at an L.A. shooting range. He was treated at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center for an adverse drug reaction and released.

Barker died on August 26, 2023 in Los Angeles, California at the age of 99. The cause of death was problems caused by Alzheimer's disease.


Connect Four

Connect Four is a simple game. To win, players must put four of the same color markers in the yellow square so that they touch. 

Example:

0= White Marker

o= Black Marker

An example of winning connect four: the player can see the 4 o's all connected together in a pattern.

oooo

An example of a move that does not let the player win:

0oo0

Nintendo DS

The Nintendo DS (also known as the DS, or NDS) is a handheld game console from Nintendo. Development began in mid-2002 and it was first released in 2004. The DS is a small machine that can fold open to reveal two screens. One screen is a touchscreen, which lets people play video games made just for the Nintendo DS. The system comes with two styluses, which are used to touch the screen. 
The Nintendo DS was discontinued in 2013.

The games are stored on small cartridges, which are like memory card chips from digital cameras. Like most Nintendo game systems, the DS loads a game quickly. The "DS" has many new features. It has a new surround sound system. The "DS" (as well as the DS Lite) also plays games made for the Game Boy Advance (only single-player mode). However, the "DS" cannot play Game Boy or Game Boy Color games.

The Nintendo DS has a successor, the Nintendo 3DS, which has two screens like the Nintendo DS. It can also play games made for the Nintendo DS.

The Nintendo DS was a rival of Sony's PlayStation Portable. They fought for sales in the seventh generation era. However, both Nintendo and Sony have said that their products were aimed at different people. The DS has currently sold more units than the PSP has. In 2011, the DS briefly held the record for best-selling game console.

Another rival was the iPod touch made by Apple. Unlike Nintendo and Sony, Apple said that the iPod touch is better than the other systems, because it has more multimedia features along with being a game system. The Nintendo DS is used mainly to play games.

Nintendo later made a newer version of the Nintendo DS, known as the Nintendo DS Lite. It was first announced on January 26, 2006 and released on March 2, 2006 in Japan, on June 1, 2006 in Australia, on June 11, 2006 in North America, on June 23, 2006 in Europe, and on January 18, 2007 in South Korea.

The DS Lite can play the same games as the DS. It is smaller, lighter, and has brighter screens. Because of its design, the Game Boy Advance games stick out when they are put in Slot 2. The second slot also comes with a cover for players to put inside when they are not using the slot. The DS Lite was made in white, black, pink, blue, red, and silver colors. This console was later made in other colors, such as metallic rose, metallic silver, and black with white.

On October 2, 2008, Nintendo announced a third model, the Nintendo DSi. It was released in Japan in 2008 and in 2009/2010 worldwide. It is bigger, thinner, and brighter than the DS Lite. It has an SD card slot, which is used to download games online. The Game Boy Advance slot was removed, which caused some disappointment when it came out. 

Nintendo announced another model in the DS family called the Nintendo DSi XL (called Nintendo DSi LL in Japan). Announced on October 29, 2009, it was released in Japan in 2009 and in 2010 worldwide. It is the biggest, heaviest, widest, and brightest of the Nintendo DS systems. It has the same features as the DSi.

The Nintendo DS has had many games made for it. Some games, such as Super Mario 64 DS, came out on the same day as the Nintendo DS. Some of the "DS"'s best-selling games are "Nintendogs", "Super Mario 64 DS", "Mario Kart DS", "New Super Mario Bros.", "Brain Age", "Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, and ".

There are many accessories for the Nintendo DS, including different coloured styluses and protective cases. Some protective cases include the highly durable Nerf cases. Most "DS" systems have a screen protector and a car adapter used to charge the "DS" in a car.

In total, the "DS" family had sold 154.9 million units as of July 15, 2021, making it the best-selling handheld system of all time, and the best-selling Nintendo console. Overall, it is the second best-selling system behind the PlayStation 2.

Sam Neill

Nigel James Dermot "Sam" Neill (born 14 September 1947) is a New Zealand actor. He has been in lots of movies. Neill has been in "Jurassic Park", "Dead Calm", "Event Horizon", "Sirens" and lots of other very famous movies. In recent years, he appeared in "" (2017) and "Peter Rabbit" (2018).

Neill was born on 14 September 1947 in Omagh, County Tyrone, Northern Ireland to a New Zealander father and English mother. He moved to New Zealand in 1954. He studied at Christ's College, Canterbury and at University of Canterbury. Neill was married to Lisa Harrow until they divorced in 1989. Then he was married to Noriko Watanabe. He has two children. Neill has New Zealand and Irish citizenships.

In March 2023, Neill revealed that he had been having chemotherapy treatment after being diagnosed with stage 3 T cell lymphoma, a type of blood cancer.


1928

The year 1928 (MCMXXIII) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Gregorian calendar. It was also a leap year starting on Saturday on the Julian calendar. This is before Tuesday, January 1, 1929, with an adoption of the Gregorian calendar from every state in the entire world.














