Bee Gees


The Bee Gees were a British–Australian pop group. For most of its history, the band consisted of three brothers all of whom were born on the Isle of Man, a British Crown dependency. The brothers, Barry Gibb (born 1 September 1946), and twins Maurice Gibb (22 December 1949 – 12 January 2003) and Robin Gibb (22 December 1949 – 20 May 2012), started singing at a young age when living in Manchester. In the late 1960s, the band briefly expanded to include Australian born Vince Melouney and Colin Petersen. When the band reformed after splitting in 1969, Australian born Geoff Bridgford briefly became a member. The Bee Gees existed for almost 40 years They are most famous for their album, "Saturday Night Fever", the soundtrack for the movie of the same name. They stopped performing after Maurice died. The two other brothers reunited as a duo in 2009. In 2012 Robin died. They had a younger brother, Andy Gibb (1958–1988), who was also a singer.

The Gibb brothers were born on the Isle of Man, then lived in Manchester, England, before moving to Australia in 1958. It was in Australia that the Bee Gees' band was formed. In January 1967, the Gibb brothers returned to England where their band the Bee Gees started to become internationally famous. In 1967, Colin Petersen and Vince Melouney joined the band but by the end the decade both had left and the brothers themselves had briefly gone their separate ways, only to reform in 1970. Between 1970 and 1972, Geoff Bridgford was a member of the Bee Gees. In 1975, the brothers relocated to the United States.


Improverts

The Improverts are an improvised comedy group based in Edinburgh, Scotland. They are a part of the Edinburgh University Theatre Company. Their home is the Bedlam Theatre. It has been their home since they were created 18 years ago. The group is similar to "Who's Line is it Anyway?", Comedy Store Players, and Keith Johnstone in that they use short improvised games. 

They have taken part in the Edinburgh Fringe Festival almost every year since they were formed. Also they have played every Friday night during the school year (as their main audience is Edinburgh University students). 

Because they are always in Bedlam Theatre, the theatre technicians improvise the sounds, music and lights along with the scenes the performers are doing. The sounds can be loud and annoying at times. The technicians show off their very big iTunes library of songs and sound effects. British 80's children's programmes' themes are a favourite of theirs.

Past players have gone on to many different things. They have created an improv group in London, joined the Stand Players' "Who's Lunch is it anyway" free improv show at Edinburgh's The Stand comedy venue and become successful stand up comedians. Some have starred in British sitcoms, television dramas, movies and popular children's programmes 

Taipei 101

Taipei 101 () is a 101-floor building in Taipei, Taiwan. In 2004, it replaced the Willis Tower (which used to be called the Sears Tower) as the tallest completed building in the world. However, in 2010, it was surpassed by the Burj Khalifa in Dubai.

Taipei 101 holds records for:

Taipei 101 does not hold the record for tallest building from ground to pinnacle. The Willis Tower has two television antennas on top of it, making its height from the ground to the top of the taller antenna 527 m (1,729 ft).

Taipei 101 is the recognized symbol of Taipei city, it brings a lot of tourists every day. The location of Taipei 101 is at the southern end of the Xinyi District, the newest area of Taipei city. Besides the tower, the base of the building houses includes a multi-level shopping mall, food court, various restaurants and stores, and an global grocery store. Every New Year's Eve, Taipei 101 is host to an impressive fireworks display that attracts people from all over Taiwan and other neighboring countries like Japan and Singapore to the area.

The Taipei 101 Observatory is open every day from 9AM to 10PM. The observatory is spread over 4 floors where visitors can enjoy the fantastic scenery and learn about the engineering marvel that is Taipei 101, the tallest green building in the world. Visitors can buy the tickets on the 5F Taipei 101 Mall, the general ticket costs NT$500 per each and the student ticket (with valid ID) costs NT$450 per each, all children (under 115 cm) are free. After purchasing the tickets, visitors may take the Guinness World Record breaking high-speed elevator to the observatory on the 89TH floor.

The 88th floor is the Beauty of Taiwan Multimedia Corridor, Super Big Wind Damper, Treasure Sky, the hallway connecting the two decks is designed to setting the natural beauty of Taiwan, providing 270-degree views of well-known scenic locations in Taiwan, leading to the engineering marvel known as a wind damper, a 5.5 meters diameter, 660 ton weight suspended within the building to offset the force of wind and help 101 stand upright. Also included is Treasury Sky, a collection of unique jewel crafts.

The 89th floor is the Indoor Observatory, visitors can learn about the design process and construction of Taipei 101 and other similar large-scale building projects around the world, including a free audio tour in eleven languages, as well as high-powered field glasses, snacks, and professional photography service.

The 91st floor is an outdoor Observatory. The outdoor observatory is accessible by stairs from the 89th floor. From the outside, it's possible to view the spire at the 508-meter-high apex, but tourists need to be careful of the strong winds. Inside the building, on the 91F, is a small theater showcasing films about the building and the annual New Year fireworks display. The 91st floor is only open on days with good weather conditions.

Taipei 101 has some of the most modern safety security of anything ever built, requiring a challenging combination of strength and flexibility, which allow it to withstand winds up to 216 km/h (134 mph), and earthquakes of a magnitude of 9.0. It has higher safer ratings than Taiwan’s nuclear power plants.

The "double stairstep" design reduce the potentially dangerous oscillations caused by high winds by about 30-40%, allowing the structure to stand, even under the force of relentless typhoons. And by now, they’ve become a recognizable design element of the structure. 


Sergio Aragonés

Sergio Aragonés Domenech (; born September 6, 1937) is a popular cartoonist. He was born in Spain and grew up in Mexico. He is most famous for his cartoons for "MAD Magazine" and the comic book "Groo the Wanderer".

Lisa Bonet

Lisa Bonet (born Lisa Michelle Bonet; November 16, 1967), also known as Lilakoi Moon, is an American actress. She is best known for her roles as Denise Huxtable on television series, "The Cosby Show" and "A Different World". She was also married to singer Lenny Kravitz from 1987 to 1993. She is of African American and Ashkenazi Jewish descent.

Tobacco

Tobacco is a product prepared from the leaves of the tobacco plant by curing them. The plant is part of the genus "Nicotiana" and of the Solanaceae (nightshade) family. It is used as a drug, mostly by inhaling the smoke of, but also by using snuff or chewing. People use cigarettes, cigars, and pipe to make tobacco smoke. Tobacco contains the chemical nicotine, which causes pleasure as a stimulant drug. It also causes addiction — after people start using nicotine, it is difficult to stop. Tobacco use can cause diseases, such as many types of cancer.

Native Americans used tobacco before Europeans arrived in the Americas. The earliest know use of tobacco comes from nicotine residue from a pipe in the Southeastern United States. It is Radiocarbon dated at 1685-1530 BC. Europeans in the Americas began to smoke and brought it back to Europe, where it became fashionable. At that time tobacco was usually smoked in a pipe. 
The Europeans who moved to America started to farm tobacco so that they could sell it in Europe. This became one of the main causes of the African slave trade. In 1610 a European man called John Rolfe arrived in the American state of Virginia and set up a tobacco farm which made him very rich. Rolfe was the first non-native farmer to use "nicotiana tabacum", which is the type of tobacco most commonly smoked today. 

In the 17th and 18th centuries tobacco made farmers very rich and towns quickly grew in the states of Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina. In 1883 one third of United States tax money came from tobacco.

In 1864 the first American tobacco factory opened to produce 20 million cigarettes annually. By 1964 the cigarette contained over 500 added chemicals. Today tobacco manufacturers are still not required by law to list the 500+ ingredients.

Tobacco users (especially those who inhale) and people around them (with passive inhalers) risk many very serious and often deadly illnesses, such as cancer, strokes, heart disease, and lung disease. The United States' Centers for Disease Control and Prevention describes tobacco use as "the single most important preventable risk to human health in developed countries and an important cause of premature (early) death worldwide". There are over 4800 chemicals in tobacco, including arsenic. Sixty-four of them are known to cause cancer. Smoking can also make men lose erections, and make their penises a bit smaller. Tobbaco however has been used as a cure for Alzheimer's and the nicotine in tobbaco has been used to treat ADHD.

Jerusalem

Jerusalem (; ; ) is one of the oldest cities in the world that people have lived in continuously. It is important to many major religions. Jews consider Jerusalem a holy city because it was their religious and political center during Biblical times and was the place where the Temple of God stood. Christians consider Jerusalem holy because many events in the life of Jesus took place there. Muslims believe that Muhammad rose to heaven from Jerusalem, and the Al-Aqsa Mosque is the first Qibla of Muslims after Mecca.

Jerusalem is the capital city of both Palestine and Israel, under their laws. Most other countries disagree. Most countries have their embassies with Israel in Tel Aviv.

Jerusalem is about 40 miles (64 kilometers) east of the Mediterranean Sea. It is a hilly city with many valleys around it.

Jerusalem is a very old city. It has great importance for three religions: Judaism, Christianity and Islam. The Bible says King David, the second king of Israel, took this city from pagans and settled his palace there. King Solomon, David's son and the next king, built the Temple of Solomon in Jerusalem. Later, as capital of Judah, Jerusalem was destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar II, the king of Babylon. The Palace of King David and the Temple of Solomon were burned, and the Jews were captured and taken to Babylon. Seventy years later, the Persian King Cyrus allowed them to return to Jerusalem and to rebuild the Temple.

Later the area was occupied by Romans. King Herod the Great, who ruled for the Roman Emperor, made the Temple larger to try and win Jewish favor. The Temple was famous for its greatness and beauty.

Jesus died in Jerusalem around 33 CE. In 70 CE, the Jews rebelled against the Romans, but the Romans destroyed the city and the Temple. Jewish people who lived in Jerusalem were caught and became slaves. The Romans renamed Jerusalem with a Latin name. Since then, the Temple has not been rebuilt, and only a part of its wall remains until today.

After the Roman Empire was split into two, the Byzantine Empire ruled Jerusalem. Later, Muslims took over the city from them. The Muslims believed Muhammad went to heaven from Jerusalem.

Later, the Pope in Rome sent the Crusaders from Western Europe to try and take Jerusalem back. They succeeded for a while, but eventually the city fell again to the Saracens. Until the 20th century, Jerusalem was a part of the Ottoman Empire. There were some Jews in Jerusalem all along, even though they were ruled by other people.

The "New City" of Jerusalem is the part outside the old stone walls. People started building the new city in the 1800s. Mishkenot Sha'annanim, Mea Shearim, and the Bukharan Quarter are some of the first neighborhoods in the new city.

After World War I, the Ottoman Empire had been defeated. In June 1922, the League of Nations approved the British Mandate of Palestine. This gave control of the area to the United Kingdom. The land west of the Jordan River was known as Palestine. It was under direct British control until 1948. The land east of the Jordan River was known as Transjordan, and was governed by the Hashemite family. Transjordan gained independence in 1946.

The mandate in Palestine ended at midnight on 14 May 1948. On the next day, the 1948 Arab–Israeli War began. Israel declared independence, the West Bank was annexed by Jordan, and Egypt took control of the Gaza Strip.

In 1949, at the end of the first Arab-Israeli War, Jerusalem was divided between Israel and Jordan. Israel controlled the western part of the city. Jordan controlled the eastern section, including the Old City, a walled section of Jerusalem dating from Biblical times. Israel took control of the entire city during the Six-Day War in 1967.

Jerusalem today is claimed by the state of Israeli as its capital. The United Nations does not agree to Israel saying that Jerusalem is the capital of Israel.

Jerusalem has been sacred to Judaism for roughly 3000 years, to Christianity for around 2000 years, and to Islam for approximately 1400 years. The 2000 Statistical Yearbook of Jerusalem lists 1204 synagogues, 158 churches, and 73 mosques within the city. Despite efforts to maintain peaceful religious coexistence, some sites, such as the Temple Mount, have been a continuous source of friction and controversy.

According to Jewish tradition, Jerusalem is where God told the patriarch Abraham to sacrifice his son, Isaac, to Him. The Jews built the Temple, the centre of Jewish worship in ancient times, at the site of Abraham's sacrifice on the Temple Mount in the Old City. Two buildings, one after the other, the First Temple and the Second Temple, stood at the site. The First Temple housed the Ark of the Covenant, a sacred box holding the tablets inscribed with the Ten Commandments.

The Western Wall is a part of the Second Temple and Judaism's most sacred shrine. It is a stone wall that strengthened the western side of the Temple Mount in ancient times. The wall is sometimes called the Wailing Wall because of the sad prayers Jewish people said there to mourn the destroyed Temple.

Other sites in the city that are sacred to the Jews include King David's tomb on Mount Zion, and the Jewish Cemetery and the Tombs of the Prophets on the Mount of Olives, a hill just east of the Old City. Many sites associated with Biblical figures are sacred to Christians, too.

Many monasteries, convents, shrines, and religious seminaries in Jerusalem mark events in the life of Jesus and in the formation of the Christian Church. According to the Bible, Jesus taught in Jerusalem and performed numerous miracles there. The Last Supper supposedly took place in a room known as the Cenacle (also called Coenaculum) on Mount Zion. The Church of the Holy Sepulcher in the Old City is said to be the place of Jesus's Crucifixion (called Calvary or Golgotha), as well as His burial and resurrection. Several Christian sects own the church, which was originally built by Constantine the Great, then rebuilt and dedicated by the Crusaders in 1149 CE. The building stands at the end of the Via Dolorosa (Way of Sorrows), believed to be the path over which Jesus carried His cross to Calvary. Jesus was last seen by His followers on the Mount of Olives before He went up to heaven. All of these sites attract many religious pilgrims each year.

Jerusalem is Islam's third holiest city, after Mecca and Medina in Saudi Arabia. According to Muslim tradition, Muhammad originally selected Jerusalem as the qibla: the direction Muslims should face during prayer. However, he later told his followers to face Mecca instead of Jerusalem when praying. Muhammad is said to have gone up to heaven from a stone now covered by a golden-domed shrine called the Dome of the Rock. The Dome of the Rock and the ancient Al-Aqsa Mosque are among the holiest sites in Islam. They are the main buildings on the Temple Mount, which Muslims call "Haram al-Sharif" (Noble Sanctuary).

Jerusalem's architecture is a mixture of old and new. The Old City contains architectural examples from each major period in the city's history. Many ancient historical sites and places of worship stand near modern shopping centers and industrial zones. Architecture from the late 1800s and early 1900s shows European influences. Usefulness rather than style characterizes new apartment buildings constructed by the government as housing for immigrants. Many buildings, old and new, have matching exteriors because all construction is required to be faced with a cream-colored limestone called Jerusalem stone, produced by nearby quarries.

Belz Beis HaMedrash HaGadol is the largest synagogue in Jerusalem.








