Robber baron


The term robber baron was first used in the 12th and 13th centuries to describe rich men who lived in large castles along major transportation rivers, like the Rhine in Europe. They would send ships out onto these rivers to stop anybody who was traveling through who did not know better and collect a tax from them on any money or goods on these ships. They were not officially allowed to collect these taxes. It was only the Holy Roman Emperor who could decide what taxes to be charged, how much and who could charge it.

Second, it is a slang term used of certain rich and ruthless industrialists and bankers, especially in the late 19th and early 20th century U.S.A. 

Winery

A winery is a place or business that makes wine. It has developed and changed for thousands of years. In wine's journey along the centuries and around the world, winery has changed, and all ends in wine production today. 

The first wine-like beverage was made in around 7000 bc, in China. This is considered wine, because the beverage follows the basic rules of winery. These are to follow a certain chemistry of yeast and glucose. Glucose (CHO), a certain type of 'sugar', is consumed by yeast, the fermentation tool. Glucose is from the grapes. Then, the yeast slowly converts them to ethanol (CHOH), carbon dioxide (CO), latic acid (HCHO), hydrogen (H), and energy. The carbon dioxide and hydrogen is not used. The latic acid can be used for cheese another time. The energy is consumed by the yeast, and lastly the remaining water and ethanol is for our wine. 

There are different types of grapes, yeast, and climate for the grapes to grow, so vintners (people who make wine) have a hard time choosing and experimenting on different flavours of wine. There were many processes too, in the old times. In ancient Egypt, slaves or workers crushed juice out of grapes, and put them in pots and jars. The juice is left to ferment. In some ancient wineries, grapes were fermented with wild yeast, which is already on grapes without human activity. Other wineries use selected yeast, which are cultivated by humans. 

Wine-like beverages were first recorded in China. But 'true wine' began in ancient Persia (modern-day middle east). Then, though trade across the Red Sea and the Mediterrainean Sea brought Persian wine to many other countries, such as Egypt, Greece, Carthaginia, and Rome. Rome was very interested in wine, and almost couldn't live without it, so they even invented a new object for the fermentation and storage in time; wine barrels. Throughout the Roman times, the wine loving nation spread the beverage across Europe, and especially along the Rhine River, the border between modern-day France and Germany. Later in the 17th century, the wine bottle and cork was invented for the storage of wine in a smaller container that is easier to carry. Nowadays, wine is made in many major countries by the tonnes, and people drink the beverage almost everywhere. 

Wine was very impressive and rare. In Assyria, peasants and other people considered 'normal' were not allowed to drink wine. Only the king and other important dignitaries drink wine. In feasts, celebrations and religious rites, the poor watched the magestic liquid full of fragance draining down the throat of their powerful leader. But the poor were not really jealous; they had beer in their hands. 

Soon, when wine began spreading everywhere, everyone began to drink it too. It appears in many religious myths and scripts too. In Persian legends, it was said that a women fired by the king decided to commit suicide (kill herself), and tried this by drinking a beverage. She thought that it was poison, but found it delicious; it was wine. She brought it to the king, and the king became intoxicated. He then ordered all grapes in his empire should be converted to wine. 

In Christianity, Jesus (the son of the Christian god) was said to turn water into wine in a party. Many religious people, monks, priests, hermits and the pope began drinking wine as a symbol of Jesus' blood lost on the cross. 

In Greek and Roman myths, there is a wine god, Bacchus, or Dionysus. He is the son of Zeus and Semele, one of his minor sex-partners (the major is Hera). He is worshiped almost every day be the Romans, and are typically worshiped for a good harvest of grapes by the farmers. 

So this is the major use of wine in culture, life, and religion, and wineries are the places that make this capable. 

When wine was drank by everyone and grew extremely popular, two old rivals fought over the monopoly of the wine-producing industry; Rome and Greece. Several decades later, Rome one the race, with the help of their wine barrels and amazing wineries. Their territory near the Rhine River also contributed deeply to major wine-production. Also, the Greek lands were eventually taken by the Romans, so there is no doubt they win. Even in 2022, the top producer of wine is Italy, Rome's origin, making 50 million hectoliters of the beverage. 

Sugar

Sugar is the common name for several chemical substances, some of which taste sweet. Mostly, it refers to sucrose, lactose, or fructose. Sugar is in certain kinds of food, or it is added to make it sweeter.

Regular or pure sugar, or "sucrose, is" extracted from sugarcane or sugar beet. Brazil produces the most sugar per person and India's total consumption of sugar is the highest for a country. Fructose is the sugar that is in fruits.

Sucrose and fructose are both made by two smaller sugars. Glucose is the more common of these smaller sugars. The human body changes regular sugar into the smaller sugars.

Sugars are a kind of carbohydrate. That is, sugars are made from carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. Carbohydrates can be "simple carbohydrates" or "complex carbohydrates". Simple carbohydrates are made of only one or a few of the smallest sugars. Complex carbohydrates are made of "many" of the smallest sugars.

Sugar can be different colors. For example, brown sugar has molasses in it, and is often used in baking.

There are 387 calories in 100 g of sugar.

Global production of sugarcane in 2020 was 1.9 billion tonnes, with Brazil producing 40% of the world total and India 20% (table).

Sugar cane can be any of many species, or their hybrids, of giant grasses in the genus, or group "Saccharum" in the family Poaceae. They have been grown in tropical climates in the Indian subcontinent and Southeast Asia over centuries for the sucrose found in their stems.

Sugar cane needs a climate with no frost, with enough rain in the growing season so that the plant grows. It is harvested by a machine or by hand, and cut into pieces and is moved to the processing plant where it is milled. The juice is extracted with water or it is extracted by diffusion. The juice is clarified with lime and heated to destroy enzymes. The thin syrup result is concentrated in evaporators, after then water is removed. The supersaturated solution is added with sugar crystals, making crystals and drying easier. Molasses, fiber from the stems, is burned to give energy for the sugar extraction process. The raw sugar crystals have a sticky brown coating and may be bleached by sulfur dioxide, or may be treated in a carbonation process to make it whiter. About of water is needed for every of sugar to be produced.

In 2020, global production of sugar beets was 253 million tonnes, led by Russia with 13% of the world total (table).

Sugar beet is harvested during cool seasons, and then a rotor beater cuts off the head of the beet, which then is then left in the field. A beet loader pulls the beets out of the earth and into a truck, where the beet is driven to a processing plant. The processor slices the beets into thin chips called cossettes. The extraction takes place in a diffuser where the beet is kept in contact with hot water for about an hour. The diffuser is a large agitated tank in which the cossettes slowly move from one end to the other as the water is moved in the opposite direction. This is called counter-current flow and as the water goes it becomes a stronger and stronger sugar juice.

In around 8,000 BC, people in New Guinea and Polynesia had sugar cane where it had then came to Asia. With interest of the people who had discovered it, sugar cane and it's practices of planting sugar cane had gone to Southwest Asia, including China and India.

In 510 BC the Persia (Iran), Emperor Darius invaded India where he found cane sugar which was named ""the reed which gives honey without bees"". The growing was kept unknown and showing the sugar for a rich profit. The Arab invasion of Persia in 642 BC, sugar cane refining techniques had been added by Eastern Mediterranean people.

Records from the Ancient Greeks and Romans would suggest that sugar cane was used in medicine. In around 350 CE, Indian people discovered how to crystallize sugar. Around 650 CE, crystallized sugar became a culinary staple across India, China, and the Middle East.


Canterbury

Canterbury is a city in Kent, England. It is about from London. It was made famous by a book called "The Canterbury Tales". It is also famous for Canterbury Cathedral. Thomas Becket was assassinated by knights who came from Sandlings.
There are two railway stations in the city; Canterbury East and Canterbury West. The A2 road passes near the city. It goes west to London and south-east to Dover.
The city has an estimated 31,000 students. This is the highest student/permanent resident ratio in the UK. There are three universities, and several other higher education institutions and colleges. At the 2001 census, 22% of the population aged 16–74 were full-time students, compared with 7% throughout England. The three universities: the University of Kent, Canterbury Christ Church University, and the University for the Creative Arts.
The St Lawrence Ground is the home ground of Kent County Cricket Club. It has hosted several One Day Internationals, including one England match during the 1999 Cricket World Cup.

The Canterbury area has been lived in since prehistoric times. Paleolithic stone axes, and Neolithic and Bronze Age pots have been found in the area. Canterbury was once the main settlement of the Celtic tribe of the Cantiaci, which lived in most of modern-day Kent. In the 1st century AD, the Romans captured the settlement and named it Durovernum Cantiacorum. The Romans rebuilt the city, with new streets in a grid pattern, a theatre, a temple, a forum, and public baths. Its position on Watling Street on route to the major Kentish ports of Rutupiae (now Richborough), Dubrae (now Dover), and Lemanae (now Lymne) made it important.

Huddersfield

Huddersfield is a large town in the Metropolitan borough of Kirklees in West Yorkshire, England. It was famous for its cloth industry, and where Rugby League football started.

Huddersfield was the birthplace for the Labour Party prime minister, Harold Wilson. It is also known for its football team, who were the first team to win the Football League first division title three years in a row (1924-26).

Huddersfield had 162,949 residents at the 2011 census. It sits close to the Pennines, south-west of Leeds, west of Wakefield, north-west of Sheffield and north-east of Manchester. 

The River Holme discharges into the River Colne. They were tapped for steam turbines and textile treatment in the large weaving sheds.

Anti-tank dog

Anti-tank dogs were dogs with explosives placed on their backs. These dogs were trained to run under enemy tanks. The explosives were then remotely detonated in order to destroy the target tank. 

These dogs were trained by the Soviet Union during World War II to be used against German armored vehicles. They were trained on Russian tanks, which used diesel fuel. In battle, the dogs often ran toward the smell of diesel fuel from the Soviet tanks instead of the intended German targets. 

The German Army soon learned about the dogs, so all Russian dogs were shot on sight by the Germans. Very few dogs remained in the Eastern Front as a result of this.

After the war better weapons against tanks were made. Therefore, it is unlikely that anti-tank dogs will ever be used again.

January 6

Since 2021, the terms January 6, January 6th, and 1/6 have been used in the media as a shorthand for the 2021 United States Capitol riots, which occurred on that day.













