Thurso


Thurso is a town in north Scotland. The town has a population of 8,721 (2001 census)

Penzance

Penzance () is a town and port in Cornwall, South West England. It is near Land's End and the most westerly major town in England. Many people live and work in Penzance. In 2001, there were 21,168 people living in Penzance. The main Cornish railway line ends at Penzance. The fishing port of Newlyn is close to Penzance.

The Tonight Show

The Tonight Show is a popular late night television talk and comedy show in the United States. It appears on the NBC television network. The show started in 1954 and was hosted by Steve Allen. In 1957, Jack Paar became the host, with Ernie Kovacs hosting on some nights.

In 1962, Johnny Carson took over and stayed until 1992, with announcer Ed McMahon as sidekick, and Doc Severinsen as bandleader. Carson, McMahon, and Severinsen retired from "The Tonight Show" in 1992, when Jay Leno became host. Leno left the show in 2009, and Conan O'Brien (of "Late Night" and "Saturday Night Live" fame) became host from June 2009 to January 2010 before leaving due to controversy with "The Tonight Show"'s timeslot. Jay Leno became the host of the show again on March 1, 2010. Leno retired in 2014 when Jimmy Fallon took over.

In late 2009, NBC said that they would be moving the "Jay Leno Show" to 11:35 PM, the time usually slotted for "The Tonight Show". The "Jay Leno Show" would be 30 minutes long. "The Tonight Show" would be moved to 12:05 AM, but would still be a full hour long. NBC did this because Jay Leno and Conan O'Brien were not getting enough viewers, and they believed that moving "The Jay Leno Show" to late night would increase their prime time viewers.

After being told this, Conan O'Brien said that he would be leaving "The Tonight Show". He said that he believed that moving the show to 12:05 would ruin it, and that it would be unfair to "Late Night", which would have been moved to 1:05 AM. The deal was made that O'Brien would receive $33 million and that his staff of almost 200 people would receive $12 million. Conan O'Brien's last show aired on January 22, 2010.

Antoni Grabowski

Antoni Grabowski was a Polish chemical engineer, and an early supporter of the Esperanto movement. The books and poems that he changed into Esperanto from other languages helped to make Esperanto more well-known and used.

Grabowski was born on 11 June 1857 in Nowe Dobre, near Chełmno, in Poland. Soon after his birth, his family moved from Nowe Dobre to Toruń. Grabowski's parents did not have a lot of money, so Grabowski started to work before leaving high school. He wanted to learn a lot, though, so he got himself ready to take a test to get into grammar school. He passed the test.

He went to the Nicolaus Copernicus school in Toruń. At that place, he was shown to be smarter than other people that were as old as him. He was put in a higher class twice.
In 1879, his family got more money, so Grabowski started to learn philosophy and natural science at the University of Breslau in Wrocław.

After he was done with school, he started to work as a chemical engineer. After that job, he started to work as a manager of a factory.

At that time, he made many new ideas about chemicals and things that helped with those ideas. He became famous among people in Europe because of that. He also had the job of making new words in the Polish language for technical things. In 1906, he wrote a book, "Słownik chemiczny". The book helped other people to learn the words he had made.

At his school, Grabowski started to want to know more about language. Because of that, he joined the Slavic Literary Society (Towarzystwo Literacko-Słowianskie), a group that wanted to learn about the Slavic language. Grabowski did not only want to learn about this language. He learned a lot of other languages.

In 1887, Grabowski read the book "Lingvo internacia. Antaŭparolo kaj plena lernolibro.". This book was written by L.L. Zamenhof, a person who wanted to make an easy language that everyone could learn. This language was called "Esperanto." Grabowski liked this language a lot. He learned it, then went to Warsaw to see Zamenhof. They spoke to each other in Esperanto.

Grabowski thought that books and writing were important to languages. He thought that this was much more true with Esperanto. Esperanto was getting used more, so it needed this. So, in 1888, Grabowski started to rewrite books into Esperanto from other languages. (this is called "translation")

In the early 1890s, Grabowski thought that Esperanto was being used by fewer people than before. He thought that this was because Esperanto needed to be remade in a different way. In 1894, though, he said that Esperanto was good like it was at first. He said that all the time after that, too.

Grabowski was the leader of the Warsaw Esperanto Society and the Polish Esperanto society for a long time. In 1908, he became the director of the Grammar Section of the Esperanto Academy. He taught people a lot about Esperanto.

From that year until 1914, he made classes for schools about Esperanto. He wrote something showing that Esperanto was good for learning other languages. People did not know this at that time.

World War I made his family have to leave Poland. They went to Russia, and he was left in Warsaw. While he was there, he rewrote from Polish one of the most important things that have been changed into Esperanto. This was the Polish poem, "Pan Tadeusz" by Adam Mickiewicz.

Grabowski died of a heart attack in Warsaw on 4 July 1921.

Vessel

Vessel or vessels may refer to:


Fire

Fire is a chemical reaction that gives off light and heat. Fire happens when a material rapidly oxidizes, or loses electrons, and releases a great amount of energy. Flames are only the portion of the fire that gives off visible light. 

Fire is sometimes useful, but also very dangerous because it can cause houses, trees and other things to burn to ashes. Forest fires are very harmful. They can destroy a huge area in a matter of minutes. Every year people die by accident from fire.

Fire can be started by heating a material in many different ways. Once the material is heated past a temperature called the ignition point, it will start to burn, beginning a fire. Some common ways to start a fire include rubbing sticks together very rapidly, making sparks by hitting flint with steel, or using matches or a lighter. The Sun does not make fire. Instead, it crushes together hydrogen atoms to release energy through a process called nuclear fusion.

Fire can be very useful if it is treated carefully. It has always been very important for people to be able to make fire. People need its heat to keep warm on cold days. It is also used to cook meats. Its light helped people see in dark places and scare away predators.

Most heat engines work by fire.

If human skin touches fire, the skin may burn, which can take some time to heal and to remove the scar. If a fire gives off a large amount of smoke, a person's mouth should be covered with a wet cloth, since people can faint when they breathe in too much smoke. Even a spark, such as from a cigarette, should be kept away from any fuels that very easily catch and spread fire, like gasoline, or cause an explosion, like gunpowder.

If fire is not treated carefully, it can be very dangerous. One wildfire sometimes burns thousands of square miles or kilometers. Forests can burn down if fires are not controlled. Every year, large areas of forests are destroyed because of fire. This usually happens in the summer.

In some camps, there is a camp fire; around the camp fire, there are usually some rocks to stop it from spreading. In buildings, fire shutters can be used. Fire shutters contain a fire. With the help of effective shutters, a fire cannot spread from room to room in a building.

Fire needs three things to burn: oxygen, fuel, and heat. Fuels can be wood, tinder, coal, oil, or any other substance that will easily oxidize. Once a fire is burning, it creates its own heat. This lets the fire keep burning on its own for some time.

Firefighters are people with special training to control and stop fires. They also rescue victims of fire related incidents.

A fire can be stopped in three different ways:

However, some fires cannot be smothered, such as magnesium flames. They can burn in carbon dioxide, nitrogen, and some other elemental compounds. However, they cannot burn in noble gases such as helium.

Fires are usually combustion reactions that take carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. The products are commonly water and carbon dioxide, although there are other examples that avoid this generalization, such as burning magnesium in air, which makes magnesium oxide.
Fires can occur in many ways. There are many types of fire. There are wood fires, gas fires, metal fires, and more.

Wood fires can usually be put out with water because water absorbs heat, but metal fires are too hot for water to absorb enough heat to put out the fire. If water is used to extinguish ("put out") a metal fire, the water will simply evaporate. For metal fires, sand can be used to cover the fire and keep it from obtaining oxygen. A fire extinguisher can put out most fires.


Five solas

In Europe in the 16th century, there was a big change in the Christian religion. During the Protestant Reformation, hundreds of thousands of people left the Catholic Church to form Protestant churches all over Europe.

"The Five solas" are an important part of reformed theology for the Protestant leaders:






