Bali


Bali () is an island and a province in Indonesia. The province includes the island of Bali and a few other islands. About 4,300,000 people live in Bali. Bali's most important city is Denpasar. Hinduism is Bali's largest religion. More than 90% of its people are Hindus. Textiles and garments are 45% of their exports. The currency in Bali is the Indonesian rupiah (IDR). The literacy rate for Bali is 95%.

Bali is a popular place for tourists. They have many historic temples and rice fields. Bali has great views and beautiful beaches and volcanoes. Hindu ceremonies, shadow puppet shows, and traditional dance are also very popular. 


Bali is a volcanic island. The two main volcanos are Mount Agung and Mount Batur. Mount Agung is sacred to the Balinese people.

Mount Agung is an active volcano, with a deep, large crater. Sometimes smoke and ash comes out of the crater. The last major eruptions occurred in November 2017.

Flag of the People's Republic of China

The Flag of China has one big star and four small yellow stars on a red background.
The big star stands for the communist government, and the four small stars stand for the workers, peasants, middle-class citizens and soldiers.
The red background stands for the blood lost while the history of China was made.


The Prince

The Prince is a book written by Niccolò Machiavelli, who lived in the city of Florence in the country of Italy. The book was published in 1513. 

The book talks about politics and government. During his life, Machiavelli saw many changes in the government of Florence. He thought a lot about what a king or prince should do to make a strong government. In the book, he said the ruler had to get a lot of power. 

One of the things he said that made people worried, was that ethics and politics are different. A person might have to do things that are "wrong" to get power. This thought made his works scandalous.

Some people think that Machiavelli was being honest with his advice and saying what he really thought. Other people think that Machiavelli was playing a joke on princes who wanted too much power and did not care about what was right.


Round

Round or rounds may refer to:






