Malleability


Malleability is a substance's ability to deform under pressure (compressive stress). If malleable, a material may be flattened into thin sheets by hammering or rolling. Malleable materials can be flattened into metal leaf. One well-known type of metal leaf is gold leaf. Many metals with high malleability also have high ductility. Some do not; for example lead has low ductility but high malleability.

Malleability is a physical property of matter, usually metals. The property usually applies to the family groups 1 to 12 on the modern periodic table of elements. It is the ability of a solid to bend or be hammered into other shapes without breaking. Examples of malleable metals are gold, iron, aluminum, copper, silver, and lead.

Gold and silver are highly malleable. When a piece of hot iron is hammered it takes the shape of a sheet. The property is not seen in non-metals. Non-malleable metals may break apart when struck by a hammer. Malleable metals usually bend and twist in various shapes.

Zinc is malleable at temperatures between 100 and 200ʡC but is brittle at other temperatures.

There are two ways to measure it. The first is to measure the pressure or compressive stress that a material withstands before it breaks. The other test involves measuring the thickness of a metal sheet before it breaks.


Gay

Gay is a word used to describe someone who is homosexual. Today, the word usually means a person who is sexually attracted to people of the same sex. Often that person is also romantically interested in people of the same sex. A gay person can be a male who likes other males or a female who likes other females. 

A person that is attracted to people only of the opposite sex is heterosexual. While a person attracted to people of the same sex and the opposite sex is bisexual.

The word "gay" can mean any homosexual person, but sometimes it is used just for homosexual men. In that case, homosexual women are called "lesbian" instead. Sometimes, people use the word "queer" to mean the same thing as "gay" when talking about sexuality. 

In the early 20th century and before, "gay" used to mean 'happy' or 'carefree', but now people use it to define sexuality.



