Ben Stein


Ben Stein (November 25, 1944) is an American attorney, writer, actor, comedian, and television personality.

He was a lawyer, then speech writer for Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford. He went into show business helping some liberal writers write accurate portrayals of conservatives for a television show. He soon turned to acting, landing his most famous role as a boring teacher in the movie "Ferris Bueller's Day Off". He was also the main person in the 2008 movie "". His nerdy appearance and dead-pan manner have made him a popular fixture on movies and TV till this day. From 1997 to 2003 he had his own game show, "Win Ben Stein's Money". He also wrote many books and had articles that appeared in popular magazines and newspapers. He is also spokesperson for a product named "Clear Eyes".

Soft rock

Soft rock is subgenre of rock music. Some people find it lighter and more relaxing than rock and roll while some cannot stand it. Some singers and musicians who sing soft rock are: Bread, The Carpenters and Chicago.

Angela Merkel

Angela Dorothea Merkel (born "Angela Dorothea Kasner" on 17 July 1954 in Hamburg) is a German politician, and was Chancellor of Germany from 22 November 2005 to 8 December 2021.

She was born in Hamburg, at the time part of West Germany, and grew up in the former German Democratic Republic, where she lived until the reuniting of Germany in 1990. Merkel is now married to Joachim Sauer, a professor of chemistry. From 2000 to 2018, she was the chairperson (was in charge of) the German conservative party, the Christian Democratic Union of Germany (CDU).

Merkel became Germany's first female chancellor on 22 November 2005 in a coalition of the two biggest German political parties, the CDU/CSU and SPD. After the next election in 2009, she formed a coalition with the German liberal party FDP. After the 2013 and 2017 Federal Elections, she again emerged as chancellor of a coalition government.

Her father was a Lutheran pastor and her mother was a school teacher. Before becoming a politician, she worked as a researcher in Physical Chemistry. In December 2015, she was named as "Time" magazine's Person of the Year. 

In October 2018, Merkel announced her permanent retirement from politics, as she said she would not seek reelection as leader of the CDU at the party convention in December 2018 and as Chancellor in 2021. After this, another female politician, Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, replaced her as CDU leader.

Chinese dragon

A Chinese dragon was the symbol of the Emperor of China. The dragon in the Qing Dynasty came out on national flags.

Dragons are often found in Chinese art and stories. Since people discovered dragons in Chinese art and stories, dragons are sometimes thought of as a symbol for China.

There are people inside Chinese dragons. Dragons are very popular in China. The phoenix is a dragon that has five claws and was a powerful symbol for the emperors in China.

Robert Duvall

Robert Selden Duvall (born January 5, 1931) is an American actor and director. Duvall won an Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in "Tender Mercies" (1983). He has also won the Screen Actors Guild Award, several Golden Globe Awards, and a BAFTA Award.

Duvall was born in San Diego, California. His parents were Mildred Virginia Hart and William Howard Duvall. He studied at Severn School in Severna Park, Maryland and The Principia in St. Louis, Missouri. He graduated, in 1953, from Principia College in Elsah, Illinois.

Duvall's career began in 1952. His first role was as Arthur "Boo" Radley in the 1962 movie "To Kill A Mockingbird". He then appeared on "Captain Newman, M.D." (1963).

He landed many of his most famous roles during the early 1970s, such as Major Frank Burns in the blockbuster comedy "MASH" (1970) and the lead role in "THX 1138" (1971), as well as Horton Foote's adaptation of William Faulkner's "Tomorrow" (1972). This was followed by a series of critically lauded performances in commercially successful films.

Duvall's political views are variously described as libertarian or conservative.

Duvall was married to Barbara Benjamin from 1964 until they divorced in 1975. Then, he was married to Gail Youngs from 1982 through 1985. Then he was married to Sharon Brophy from 1991 through 1996. He has been married to Argentine actress Luciana Pedraza since 2005.

Duvall has no children. He lives in The Plains, Virginia.

He has appeared in many other films including:


In 2015, at age 84, Duvall became the oldest person ever nominated for Best Supporting Actor at the Academy Awards, with a nomination for the movie "The Judge."


Stevie Wonder

Stevland Hardaway Judkins (born May 13, 1950) known by his stage name Stevie "The Visionary" Wonder, is an American musician, singer-songwriter, record producer, and multi-instrumentalist.

A child prodigy,Wonder became one of the most successful and well-known artists on the Motown label. He has recorded 23 albums and more than 30 U.S. top ten hits,such as "Superstition", "Sir Duke" and "I Just Called To Say Love You" (which topped all the charts the board it faced). He has written and produced songs for many of his labelmates and other artists as well. His music, which concerns love, peace, care and knowledge about the outside world has won him 25 Grammy Awards(the most awarded to a male solo artist). Wonder plays the drums, guitar, synthesizers, congas, and most famously the piano, harmonica, and the keyboard. In 2009, United Nations dubbed him "Messenger of Peace".

He was born on May 13, 1950 at St. Mary's of Michigan Medical Center in Saginaw, Michigan. His real name is Stevland Hardaway Judkins but he later dropped the name Morris and it has been his name for his life.

He has been blind since shortly after his birth. While in the hospital his incubator was left too warm, which caused his retina to detach and resulted in severe optical nerve damage.

In 1961, Wonder sang his own composition , "Lonely Boy" for Smokey Robinson of The Miracles. This earned wonder his contract with Motown and he was mentored by Clarence Paul.Wonder's first album, "The Jazz Soul of Little Stevie", was released by Motown Records in 1962 when Wonder was 12 years old. This album was to showcase Stevie's instrumental talents and contained to compositions that Wonder and Paul co-wrote - "Session Number 112" and "Wondering". He released his second album "Tribute to Uncle Ray" later that year, mostly covers of Ray Charles's songs including a fresh song, "Sunset". These two albums were released in reverse order of recording and failed to gain recognition.Clarence, feeling a song was coming on set "Mother Thank You" for release as a single, which was pulled and replaced with "I Call It Pretty Music But The Old People Call It The Blues". The song almost broke into the Billboard Hot 100, appearing at 101 before dropping out of sight. The followups "Little Water Boy" and "Contract on Love" had no success, despite the latter appearing on the Uptight album. His first live album "Recorded Live: The 12 Year Old Genius" reached number one in the "Billboard" 200 and contained the live two part single "Fingertips", This made him the youngest musician ever to have a number one album in the United States and the youngest artist ever to top the chart.

His next few singles were not successful; his voice was changing as he got older and Motown was considering cancelling his contract. To save him, a fresh single "Up-Tight", co-written with Wonder was recorded in 1965 with reports saying it was based on a rhythm he had been humming and during recording the lyrics were sung back to Wonder as they were unavailable in Braille and that he "never missed a beat". The single charted at No.1 and an album was rushed into production the following year to back it success. This established Wonder as a genuine Motown hitmaker. Since then, he has used a Hohner clavinet.

In 1971, Wonder released the album "Where I'm Coming From", an album he expected to see what was going wrong with the world (featured the single "If You Really Love Me". Around the same time his label mate, Marvin Gaye released a similar album, "What's Going On", which spawned three singles. The albums have been compared with Marvin's seen as successful, whereas Wonder's seen as "self-indulged, undistinguished, pretentious" and overall lacking in unity and flow. Wanting to become a more independent artist, Wonder allowed his old Motown contract to expire.

Wonder moved to a new studio and was taught synthesiser engineering. He then met Malcolm Cecil and Robert Margouleff who introduced him to an electric orchestra known as TONTO (The Original New Timbral Orchestra) Around the time of its release the previous year, it garnered a lot of attention. On March 3, 1972 Wonder released a new album by the name of "Music of My Mind", with all songs flowing together thematically. The album spawned the singles "Superwoman" and "Keep On Running". The album was a success with critics finding it representative of his artistic growth. Although he was separate from Motown, he would still submit his albums to his old record label, Tamla. Cecil and Margouleff helped him engineer the TONTO synthesiser and so were listed as associate producers. This began Wonder's classical period and marked a long collaboration with TONTO's Expanding Head Band.

The albums that followed were Talking Book and Innervisions, the latter winning album of the year in 1973. Wonder won his first four Grammy Awards in 1973. Two of the awards were for his single "Superstition" from "Talking Book". In 1974, Wonder's seventeenth album "Fulfillingess' First Finale" was released, also winning album of the year. It featured two number one singles, "Boogie on Reggae Woman", and "You Haven't Done Nothin", a hit which launched criticism against The Nixon Federation - funny enough, 2 days later, Richard Nixon resigned. Wonder won another four Grammys for the album that year. It was Wonder's second number one album. Wonder's next album "Songs in the Key of Life" also reached number one. This was Wonder's most critically acclaimed album and the Library of Congress called it "culturally, historically or aesthetically significant". It spawned five singles , "Sir Duke", a song explaining the pleasures of music, "I Wish" wishing for childhood days to come back "As" a ballad of love which will last till The Impossible happens, "Another Star" a fast-paced Cuban style heartbreak ballad which featured on BBC's promotional video for the 2014 World Cup and "Isn't She Lovely" a song inspired by the birth Wonder's daughter, Aisha Morris.(Wonder would not release it as a single although instructed by a Motown executive to do so.) The former two songs reached No.1 on the Billboard charts.

In 1979, he released a soundtrack album, Journey Through The Secret Life Of Plants for a documentary The Secret Life Of Plants. The album used a computer melodian virtually throughout. The album contain the No.1 ballad "Send One Your Love". The album had been called "odd" "goofy" "nerdy" and "foolish". Wonder blamed Motown for not promoting the album properly. In 1980, Wonder released Hotter Than July which included "I Ain't Gonna stand For It", a country-style song about a man whose property has been repeatedly trespassed, "Master Blaster (Jammin')", a reggae tune dedicated to Bob Marley, "Lately", a ballad and "Happy Birthday", a song in memory of Martin Luther King Jr used for Wonder's campaign to make Luther's birthday a national holiday. His next was a greatest hits album titled "Original Musiquarium I" featuring 4 new singles "That Girl", "Do I Do", "Front Line" and "Ribbon in The Sky". In 1983, Wonder contributed "Stay Gold" to the drama "The Outsiders". He then scheduled an album to be titled People Work, Human Play. The album never surfaced and instead 1984 saw the release of his next soundtrack album The Woman in Red.It spawned the hit single "I Just Called to Say I Love You" which reached number one in all the countries with charts at the time, therefore becoming his bestselling record. It was Wonder's only number one in the UK. It was number one there for six weeks. In 1985 Wonder released the digital album In Square Circle and featured on Dionne Warwick's single "That's What Friends Are For" with Elton John and Gladys Knight. It reached number one in the US. Wonder shared the Grammy Award for Best Pop Performance by a Duo Or Group With Vocal. In 1987 Wonder released the album Characters which featured hit singles "Skeletons" and "You Will Know", but was subject to mixed reception. Michael Jackson's album "Bad" was released. Wonder featured on the album's fifth song "Just Good Friends". In December 1987 Wonder released a single called "Get It", a duet with MJ in turn for Just Good Friends.

In 1991, Wonder's 3rd soundtrack album, Jungle Fever was released a month before the drama film of the same name. The album helped Wonder climb back into the Top Ten in album charting.

In 1995 Wonder released "Conversation Peace". It was his first album that was not a soundtrack since 1987. One single, "For Your Love", was released from the album. It won 2 Grammy awards for Best R&B Male Vocal Performance and Best R&B Song.

In 2005 Wonder released his first album in ten years, "A Time to Love". Reviewers were upset with the fact it took ten years for him to release a new album with fresh material. On June 25, 2011, Wonder performed at the opening ceremony of the 2011 Special Olympics World Summer Games in Athens, Greece.

Wonder said in 2013 that he will release 2 new albums in 2014, and is making a third. The current working titles are Ten Billion Hearts, When The World Began and Gospel Inspired By Lula.


Littleton, Colorado

Littleton is a community in Colorado, near Denver. It is most famous in 1999 because of the Columbine High School massacre at Columbine High School, which is not actually in the city of Littleton, but is in a ZIP code assigned to Littleton.

Motown

Motown is a famous record label founded in Detroit, Michigan in the late 1950s by Berry Gordy. It is known for signing many well-known rhythm and blues singers and groups. Some of the artists who sang on the label include:

"Motown" can also refer to the city of Detroit itself, or to the genre of music made by artists like those listed above.

Mustelid

Mustelids are a family of carnivorous mammals. They are the family Mustelidae, in the order Carnivora.

They are the largest family of mammals. They are diverse, from weasels who eat mice to wolverines that can kill prey much larger than themselves. Mustelids live in many habitats: otters for example, live mostly in the water, while one species of weasel lives in the Arctic.

One kind of mustelid, the ferret, has been tamed and used for hunting for a long time. These days it is mostly kept as a pet. Because the ferret looks a bit like a rat that has been stretched out in the middle, it is sometimes called a tube rat.

These are other well-known animals from the mustelid family.

They can be thought of as two subfamilies, the Lutrinae (the otters), and the Mustelinae (the rest)

Vanilla Ninja

Vanilla Ninja is a music group made up of four girls named Lenna Kuurmaa, Katrin Siska, Piret Järvis. Previous members are Triinu Kivilaan & Maarja Kivi.
The band has had some popular songs in Europe and they were in the Eurovision Song Contest in 2005. 






