Black Sabbath


Black Sabbath were an English heavy metal band. They are considered to be the inventors of heavy metal. They helped start the genre in the late 1960s and early 1970s. They have sold over 70 million albums worldwide.
The original lineup for the band was Ozzy Osbourne (vocals), Tony Iommi (guitar), Terence "Geezer" Butler (bass) and Bill Ward (drums).

Black Sabbath formed in 1968. The band was originally named Polka Tulk Blues Band. After that it was shortened to Polka Tulk. They decided after that to name themselves Earth which Osbourne hated. They played blues-rock music. Tony Iommi had a work accident that cut off the tips of his middle and ring finger on his right hand. He started tuning his guitar lower to make its strings looser. This made it easier for him to play the guitar. Because of this, his guitar had a darker, deeper sound. The band thought this made their music sound dark and scary. Their music also had unusual key changes and time signatures (metre). They released their first album, "Black Sabbath", in 1970. Their most successful single, named "Paranoid" came from their second album of the same name, which was supposed to be named War Pigs. It was produced by Rodger Bain and released in 1970. After that album, they got a huge suitcase full of money so they could buy more drugs and they got more studio time.

Their third album was named "Master of Reality". It was released in 1971. The album sounded even more doomy than the first two albums. Their fourth album in 1972 was meant to be named Snowblind, but their record label did not want to release an album named after a song that references cocaine. The record label named it "Black Sabbath Vol. 4" instead. Their fifth album, "Sabbath Bloody Sabbath", came out in 1973. It was the first of their albums to get good reviews from critics, although their opinion of the first four albums also changed to become much more positive over time.

In 1975, Sabbath released "Sabotage", which featured some longer more progressive songs, and had a less doomy sound. This change in sound continued with 1976's "Technical Ecstasy", which received mixed reviews. Osbourne lost interest in the band and left for a short time. After that ex-Fleetwood Mac singer Dave Walker was the lead vocalist. Osbourne decided to rejoin in time their eighth album titled "Never Say Die!". It got ok reviews.

Ozzy was fired from the band in 1979 because of his drug and alcohol addiction. Ronnie James Dio had just left Rainbow (band) and met Sharon Osbourne at a bar. He ended up replacing him. The band recorded two studio albums and one live album with him. The first studio album of the two, "Heaven And Hell," was considered a return to success and musical form. drummer Bill Ward left midway through the Heaven & Hell tour due to alcohol addiction. Carmine Appice almost replaced him, but decided to let his younger brother Vinny Appice join instead as he was a huge fan of Sabbath. Carmine later joined Ozzy’s solo band replacing drummer Tommy Aldridge. Appice stayed for another album and tour. Dio and Appice got upset with the other members of the band due to the mixing of Live Evil. Dio and Appice left Black Sabbath in 1982 and formed Dio. Ward rejoined for next album, Born Again. He did not tour with the band for the supporting tour of the album. The drummer hired for the tour was ex-Electric Light Orchestra drummer Bev Bevan. The band hired ex-Deep Purple singer Ian Gillan for "Born Again". Gillan reunited with Deep Purple, effectively ending this lineup of Sabbath

In 1984, Butler left the band for a solo project. Iommi put sabbath on hiatus while into the studio to record a solo album. It was meant to be an all star album with multiple singers. He ended up using Glenn Hughes on the whole album. He hired many bassists to replace original bassist Butler. He hired many drummers to replace original drummer Ward. Seventh Star was not meant to be released as Black Sabbath. It was going to be his debut solo album. However, Iommi ended up being his debut it was released in 2000. Tony Iommi wanted it to be his debut solo album, but his Warner Bros/Vertigo refused to do so, stating that the Black Sabbath name would make more money. Iommi wouldn't do that, and Sabbath was not selling good at the time so it made more sense to mark it as a solo record. They came up with a solution. It ended up being released under Black Sabbath featuring Tony Iommi.

In 1987, The Eternal Idol was released with the same lineup but with vocalist Tony Martin on vocals. This lineup lasted for another album, than Dio rejoined. This lineup than would last till Cross Purposes with original bassist Butler on bass. Iommi reunited the Tyr lineup for Forbidden.

In 1992, Ronnie James Dio and Vinny Appice rejoined the band for another album and tour. After that, Tony Iommi reunited the Tyr lineup for another album but with original bassist Butler. In 1994, Butler left the band during the production of Forbidden. In 1997, the original line up reformed and continued to perform occasionally until 2006, when the band went to go do a greatest hits album with Dio. That ended up with a reunion tour and a new album and supporting tour.

In 2005, Black Sabbath were inducted into the "UK Music Hall of Fame". In 2006 the band were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

In 2011, the original line up announced they were getting back together to tour and record a new album. However, in February 2012, Ward announced he wouldn't tour and record with them unless he received a good contract for him. He never ended up getting his contract. They went on the road with Tommy Clutefos and for the studio used Rage Against the Machine Drummer Brad Wilk. They were ready to go tour when Tony Iommi got diagnosed with lymphoma. They cancelled all the dates on the reunion tour but one. That tour got replaced by Ozzy and Friends. After Tony Iommi recovered, they went out on a reunion tour. After that ended,they went on a supporting tour for their recently released album, 13. In 2016 they announced that they would embark on a farewell tour called The End tour. It lasted from 2016 to 2017.The band retired after the tour ended. It ended after the last show in Birmingham. They reunited for a one-off show at the Commonwealth games in Birmingham with touring drummer, Clutefos, keyboardist Adam Wakeman, original lead vocalist Osbourne, and lead guitarist Iommi.


Watt

The watt (symbol: W) is the SI unit of power. It is named in honour of the physicist James Watt (1736–1819).

The watt is a method of measuring the rate of energy transfer of an appliance. A one watt lightbulb, for example, will change one joule of electrical energy into light energy (and some heat/sound) every second, thus "consuming" it. It is a measure of an appliance's power (appetite for joules).

The watt is the rate a source of energy uses or produces one joule during one second, so the same quantity may be referred to as a joule per second, with the symbol J/s. It can also be written as kg·m·s. The more watts, the more energy used per second. That is why a higher-watt electrical appliance works faster than a lower-watt appliance.

It is equivalent to one volt ampere (1 V·A) or 1/746 of a horsepower. The power of a light bulb is measured in watts. LEDs have much smaller consumption of power. Example small led can be used by what can be also written 15 milliwatts.

Watt is a unit of power, joule is a unit of work and energy, and time is a unit of time. An equation for solving Power, Work and Time is Power = Work ÷ Time, Work = Power × Time, or Time = Work ÷ Power.
1000 watts is called a kilowatt, written as kW. It is also known as (10) watts. In many countries, electric bills are based on how many kilowatt-hours are being used.

1000000 watts is called a megawatt, written as MW. It is also known as (10) watts. This is used to describe how much electricity is needed by a large town.

1000000000 watts is called a gigawatt, written as GW. It is also known as (10) watts. This is used to describe how much electricity is needed for a power grid.

If 1000kJ of energy was used to power one lightbulb of 100W, how long will the lightbulb last for using that energy?

Because Time is unknown, but you know the other two, the correct equation would be "Time = Work ÷ Power", then 1,000,000J ÷ 100W = 10000 seconds. Then convert it into proper time and you'll get 2 hours, 46 minutes and 40 seconds.

Koblenz

Koblenz is a city in northern Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany with about 107,000 inhabitants. It is the third biggest city in the state of Rhineland-Palatinate and one of its main centres. Koblenz is the base of the Campus Koblenz of the University of Koblenz-Landau and the seat of the Mayen-Koblenz municipality.

Koblenz is at the meeting of the Rhine and Moselle rivers, between Bonn ( downstream the Rhine) and Mainz ( upstream the Rhine). Parts of Koblenz belong to a UNESCO World Heritage site.

Delta

Delta (uppercase/lowercase Δ δ), is a letter of the Greek alphabet, used to represent the "d" sound in Ancient and Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 4. Letters that came from it include the Roman D and Cyrillic Д.

In mathematics, the upper-case letter Δ can be used as symbol to represent "change" in a variable (e.g., formula_1). It can also be used to represent discriminant—a key algebraic expression used to determine the number of roots a polynomial has. The lower-case letter formula_2, on the other hand, is often used to denote small quantities in proofs involving limit, a key concept on calculus is based on.

In molecular chemistry, the lower case Greek letter δ is used to represent a partial charge. This is always less than the unit charge associated with an ion, but has no real fixed value.

A river delta is so named because its shape approximates the upper-case letter delta.


Elbe

The Elbe River ( , , , ) is one of the major waterways of central Europe. It comes from the North West Czech Republic. It flows through much of Germany. At Cuxhaven, it flows into the Wadden Sea, which is part of the North Sea. Important big cities on the boards of the river are Hradec Králové, Pardubice and Ústí nad Labem in the Czech Republic, and Dresden, Magdeburg and Hamburg in Germany. 

Each of mentioned cities in the Czech Republic has almost 100,000 inhabitants. There are about 500,000 people living in Dresden, and 250,000 in Magdeburg. With 1.8 million people in the city proper, Hamburg is the second largest city in Germany, and the sixth largest city in the European Union. Hamburg is still away from the estuary. 

The port in Hamburg is the second most important seaport in the EU, after Rotterdam, and the third most important for container ships in the EU (after Rotterdam and Antwerp). Ships can travel up to Pardubice. 

The Elbe is an important river, and is classified as a stream. Up to Cuxhaven, it is long, are in the Czech Republic. Officially, its length is , which is a point in the open sea. 

Danube

The Danube (Latin name "Hister") is the second-longest river in Europe (the Volga is the longest). It is the longest river of the European Union.

The river is 2,860 km (1,777 mi) long. Brigach and Breg join in Donaueschingen (near the Black Forest) to "make" the Danube. The Danube flows through or makes part of the border of 10 countries: Germany, Austria, Slovakia, Hungary, Croatia, Serbia, Romania, Bulgaria, Moldova and Ukraine. The river ends in the Black Sea through the Danube Delta.

Bigger cities include Ulm, Regensburg in Germany; Linz, Vienna in Austria; Bratislava in Slovakia, Budapest in Hungary; Vukovar in Croatia; Novi Sad and Belgrade in Serbia.

The Danube is named in many other languages: , (Dunav), German and Plattdüütsch: , , , , , , or "Danubius", , , , , .

The Danube is an important waterway. Ocean ships can go to Brăila in Romania. River boats can go to Kehlheim in Bavaria. Smaller ships can travel as far north as Ulm, Germany.

There are three artificial waterways built on the Danube:
There is much history and culture related to the Danube. As with many other rivers, its natural environment and plants and animals are affected by pollution.


Main

The Main (pronounced in German like the English word "mine") is a river in Germany, 524 km in length, and one of the bigger tributaries of the Rhine river. Its average discharge at Frankfurt East Harbour is 190 cubic metres/second. It flows through the Bundesländer (states) of Bavaria, Hesse and 25 Kilometers along the border of Bavaria with Baden-Württemberg. The biggest city on the Main is Frankfurt, others are Bayreuth, Bamberg, Würzburg, Hanau and Offenbach. The mid Main valley is characterised by many vineyards. It is part of the region of Franken. Boats on the Main can use the Rhine-Main-Danube Canal to go to Eastern Europe. 

The name of the river has nothing to do with the English word "main", which means "most important", or the French word "main", which means "hand". The river was named "Mogin" by the ancient celts after their god Mogon. Later, the Romans called the river "Moenus" in their language. In the Middle Ages, this name became "Meyn" and later "Main".

Weser

The Weser is a river of north-western Germany. Formed at Hannoversch Münden by the confluence of the Fulda and Werra rivers, it flows through Bremen to the North Sea, and has a length of 440 km. Together with the Werra, its length is 730 km.

Suicide

Suicide is when a person chooses to kill themselves. When someone kills themselves, people say that they have "committed suicide," "completed suicide," or "died by suicide". When a person seriously considers killing themselves, they are described as suicidal.

Suicide is one of the top three causes of death for young people aged 14–35. It is the second most common cause of death for college students. Every 3 seconds, a person somewhere in the world tries to kill themselves. Every 40 seconds, someone dies by suicide. For every suicide, at least six other people are seriously affected.(WHO 2000) When people start having thoughts about killing themselves, it may be a medical emergency. They should get a suicide risk assessment as soon as possible. They should not be left alone.

There are many reasons why a person might think about suicide. Most people who are suicidal have some type of mental disorder. They may have a chronic condition, which has been going on for a long time. But it may be an acute condition, which means the first symptoms of mental illness happened rather quickly. Depression is a mental illness that may affect a person to have suicidal thoughts. Depression may also be a symptom of other mental or medical disorders. Another mental condition which may lead to self-harm or suicide is schizophrenia. The stress of life, and its events, like losing a job or getting sick, are less likely to cause suicide. Other causes of suicidal thoughts are extreme cases of bullying and social isolation. Although depression is the main factor in suicide, it is also treatable, and suicide is often preventable.

There are many risk factors for suicide. However, it is important to remember that risk factors are not the same as causes. Risk factors do not "cause" suicide or suicidal thoughts. They only make it more likely that some people with those risk factors "may" become suicidal. If a person has a risk factor, that does not mean they will become suicidal.

Mental illness is present at the time of suicide 27% to more than 90% of the time. Of those who have been hospitalized for suicidal behavior, the lifetime risk of completed suicide is 8.6%. Comparatively, non-suicidal people hospitalized for affective disorders have a 4% lifetime risk of suicide. Half of all people who die by suicide may have major depressive disorder; having this or one of the other mood disorders such as bipolar disorder increases the risk of suicide 20-fold. Other conditions implicated include schizophrenia (14%), personality disorders (8%), obsessive compulsive disorder, and posttraumatic stress disorder. Those with autism spectrum disorders also attempt and consider suicide more frequently.

Among people with a mental disorder, 25% also have alcohol abuse issues. People who abuse alcohol have a 50% greater risk of suicide than those who do not.

While acts of self-harm are not considered suicide attempts, a person who self-harms may be more likely to die by suicide.


Substance abuse is the second most common reason for suicide and feeling suicidal. Only two serious mental illnesses - depression and bipolar disorder - cause more harm. A person is at greater risk for suicide whether they have been using drugs for a long time or just a short time. When a drug abuser is also suffering from great sadness or grief, suicide is even more common.

Problem gamblers have more suicidal ideation and make more suicide attempts compared to the general population. (Problem gambling is gambling that causes major problems in a person's life.)

If a person becomes a problem gambler earlier in life, they have a higher risk of suicide for the rest of their life. Gambling-related suicide attempts are usually made by older people with gambling problems. Substance use and mental disorders increase the risk of suicide even more in people with problem gambling.

There is a link between suicidality and medical conditions, including chronic pain, mild brain injury, (MBI) or traumatic brain injury (TBI). People with these conditions had a higher rate of suicide that was not caused by depression or alcohol abuse. People with more than one medical condition had an even higher risk of suicide.

Problems with sleeping, such as insomnia and sleep apnea, may be risk factors for depression and suicide. In some people, the sleep problem itself, not depression, may be what increases their risk for depression.

People being treated for mood disorders should be checked by a doctor. This should include a physical examination and blood tests. This can ensure the person's mood disorder is not caused by a medical problem. Many medical conditions can cause problems with mood and thinking. Seeing a doctor will also help make sure that it is safe to prescribe medications for the person's mood disorder.

Some mental disorders that are risk factors for suicide may be partly caused by problems in the brain and body.

Even if they have the same risk factors, some people are at a higher risk for suicide than others. This is partly because of genetic inheritance. Genetics causes about 30–50% of the difference in suicide risk among different people. For example, a person whose parent died by suicide is much more likely to try to kill themselves. Epigenetics may also affect suicide risk.
How the media shows news stories of suicide may have a negative effect and trigger the possibility of copycat suicides (this is called the Werther effect). This risk is greater in teenagers and young adults. The opposite of the Werther effect is the Papageno effect. This means that the media can help make suicide less likely if they cover good ways of dealing with stress and difficult things in life.

A person is also more likely to die by suicide if:


Protective factors make it less likely that a person will die by suicide. They help "protect" a person from the risk of suicide. They can also help protect a suicidal person from the effects of suicidal thinking.

Protective factors can be "internal", such as a person's personal strengths and beliefs. For example:
Protective factors can also be "external," such as a person's relationships and life situation. These factors can include:
Protective factors are as important to identify as risk factors. Just as risk factors can be reduced, protective factors can be increased. 

Suicide prevention tries to decrease the number of suicides by using protective measures. Some prevention strategies make it harder for people to get the most common things used to commit suicide. This includes taking away guns, poisons, and drugs.

Studies have shown that good treatment of depression, alcohol abuse, and drug abuse can decrease the number of suicides. So does follow-up contact with those who have made a suicide attempt.

In many countries, people at high risk of hurting themselves can check themselves into a hospital emergency department. In some countries or states, a doctor, judge, or police officer can force a person to go to the hospital if they seem suicidal, even if the person does not want to go. The person will be watched closely at the hospital to make sure they do not hurt themselves. A doctor or mental health professional will decide whether the person needs to go to a psychiatric hospital.

"SOS Signs of Suicide" is a suicide prevention program used in secondary schools for students between 13 and 17 years old. The program educates students about suicide and tests them for suicide risk. Students who have done this program make fewer suicide attempts than students who have not done the program.

Suicide hotlines, and crisis intervention centers help students at high risk. They help people who have suicidal thoughts.

A suicide risk assessment looks at how likely a person is to attempt suicide. A good assessment can help prevent suicide. It is also the first step in coming up with a treatment plan. Even though suicide risk assessments are very important, they are usually not done. Many mental health care workers have little or no training in how to do a suicide risk assessment.

Worldwide, suicide rates have increased by 60% in the past 45 years, mainly in the developing countries. As of 2006:
According to 2007 information, suicides happen twice as often as homicides in the United States. Suicide is the 11th leading cause of death in the country, ahead of liver disease and Parkinson's disease.

Suicide rates vary a great deal across the world. Lithuania has the highest suicide rate.

30% of deaths by suicide are by people who are intoxicated.(

In the United States, suicide has been increasing for African American teens. Native Americans and whites have the highest rate of suicide in the United States. More blacks than whites have committed suicide during the COVID-19 pandemic. White men are most likely to commit suicide. White males account for nearly 70% of suicide deaths. Middle-aged white men have the highest suicide rate.

The most common ways of death by suicide are not the same in every country. In different areas, they include hanging, pesticide poisoning, and firearms.

A 2008 report compared 56 countries using information from the World Health Organization. It found that:

Other people in the world die by suicide by:

Sometimes, suicidal people do something that will make another person kill them. For example, a suicidal person might point a gun at a police officer so the police officer will shoot the person in self-defense. This is commonly called "suicide by cop."

Modern medicine treats suicide as a mental health issue. It is considered a medical emergency when a person starts having many thoughts about killing themselves.

The Abrahamic religions (like Christianity, Judaism, and Islam) think that life is sacred. They believe that when a person kills themselves, they are murdering what God has made. For this reason, many followers of Abrahamic religions think that when a person dies by suicide, they will go to Hell.

The Dharmic and Taoist religions (like Buddhism, Hinduism, Jainism, Taoism, Confucianism, and Shinto) believe that someone who does by suicide will be reincarnated in the next life with a less enlightened soul. However, many people of these religions are more likely to commit suicide because they believe there will be the next life. They think that by dying by suicide, they may have a better chance in the next life.

There are several famous examples of suicide attacks in history. The Kamikazes were one example. They were Japanese fighter pilots during World War II, who would try to kill American soldiers by crashing their planes into American ships. By crashing their planes, they would kill themselves as well.

The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States were also done by suicide attackers. They flew planes into the World Trade Center buildings and the Pentagon.

Learn more about suicide and how to get help for yourself or others






