Dominica


The Commonwealth of Dominica is an island nation in the Caribbean Sea. It is an English-speaking country. It is between the French-speaking territories of Guadeloupe and Martinique. The island is 751 km² (290 mi²) in area. Roseau is its capital. Portsmouth is another main town. Almost 70,000 people live on the island.

The currency of the island is the East Caribbean dollar.

The island's name comes from the Latin for Sunday, "Dies Dominica". It is not the Spanish-speaking Dominican Republic in the Greater Antilles.

The country is nicknamed the "Nature Island of the Caribbean".

Dominica is most famously depicted in Jean Rhys' classic prequel to "Jane Eyre", "Wide Sargasso Sea".

The indigenous Carib people lived in Dominca before it was found by Europeans. They called it "Wai‘tu kubuli", which means "Tall is her body."

Christopher Columbus came to Dominica in 1493. In 1763, it became a territory of the United Kingdom from which its independence was received on 3 November 1978.

In August 1979, Hurricane David, wiped out its entire infrastructure. On 21 November 2004, the island was hit by its most destructive earthquake in history; Portsmouth and the northern area were deeply affected.

On 18 September 2018, Hurricane Maria, the most powerful storm to hit the island, severely damaged its infrastructure and cut off all its communications to the outside world. The Assessment Capacities Project estimates that the hurricane has caused $1.37 billion in losses across the island, which is equal to 226 percent of its 2016 GDP. As of April 12, there are 65 fatalities confirmed across the island, including 34 who are missing and presumed to be dead.

In 1980, Dame Eugenia Charles became its prime minister, the first female government leader in the West Indies.

Dominica is an island nation in the Caribbean Sea. It is the northernmost of the Windward Islands.

Dominica is largely covered by rainforest. It is home to the world's second-largest hot spring, Boiling Lake.

Morne Trois Pitons National Park is a tropical forest with scenic volcanic features. It was recognised as a World Heritage Site on 4 April 1995.

Dominica is divided into 10 parishes, given below with their 2011 Census populations:

Cricket is a popular sport on the island. Dominica competes in test cricket as part of the West Indies cricket team.

Netball, basketball, rugby, tennis and association football are gaining popularity as well.



