Bolivia


Bolivia , officially the Plurinational State of Bolivia, is a country in South America. It is land locked by Brazil, Paraguay, Argentina, Peru, and Chile. Luis Alberto Arce Catacora became the president of "Bolivia" in November 2020.
The population of Bolivia is 11.51 million (2019).

Bolivia is named after Simón Bolívar. The main languages are Spanish and Quechua, but there are other languages too.

Bolivia used to be a colony of Spain. The silver mines in Bolivia made most of Spain's money, and Spain used the Native Bolivians as slaves to work in the mines.
After many wars, Simón Bolívar helped Bolivia to be an independent country.

Bolivia is 424,135 mi² (1,098,581 km²). This means that Bolivia is the world's 28th-largest country (after Ethiopia). It is the same sort of size as Mauritania.

Bolivia is a landlocked nation, which means every border of Bolivia is a border with another country, and so it does not have a sea. It used to own some of the Pacific coast, but it lost it in 1879 in the War of the Pacific. The west of Bolivia is on the Andes mountain range. The highest mountain in Bolivia is called Nevado de Sajama and it is near the city of Oruro. Although this part of the country is very high with lots of mountains, there are also parts of Bolivia which are very flat, and parts of the country which are very near sea level. There is also a bit of Bolivia covered by the Amazon rainforest, and a big lake which is the highest lake in the world. This lake is called Lake Titicaca.

The major cities are La Paz, El Alto, Santa Cruz de la Sierra and Cochabamba. For other places in Bolivia see List of cities in Bolivia.

The population of Bolivia is approximately 10,907,778 people. The ethnic composition of the country is like the following:

Bolivia suffers from poverty. Over 65% of the population lives below the poverty line.

Bolivia is divided into nine departments. The departments are divided into 112 provinces. The provinces are divided into 339 municipalities and into native community lands.

Bolivian culture has many Inca, Aymara and other native influences in religion, music and clothing. There is a big festival in Oruro, which is called "El carnaval de Oruro". People in Bolivia like playing football, and football, which is often played in the street. Zoos are also very popular, but they do not have much money.

The Cantuta (often spelled kantuta or qantuta) (Cantua buxifolia or Fuchsia buxifolia) is a flower found in the Yungas, and is the national flower of Bolivia along with the "patujú" (Heliconia rostrata) found in the tropical regions of Bolivia.


Notes

Massachusetts

Massachusetts is a state in the United States of America. Its official name is the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

Its capital and largest city is Boston. It is on the east coast of the United States. It is a part of New England. It is next to the Atlantic Ocean and the states of Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, Vermont, and New Hampshire. The word "Massachusetts" comes from Native American language. It means "place with hills."

Massachusetts was one of the first places that European people lived when they came to America. It was one of the first American colonies. The Pilgrims from Plymouth, England came to America for religious freedom in 1620.

Massachusetts is home to some of the United States' most prestigious universities, such as Harvard University and MIT. Massachusetts is also one of the richest states in the United States. Its major cities are Boston, Worcester, Springfield, and Plymouth.

Massachusetts is also home to the 6 time Super Bowl winning New England Patriots.

Massachusetts was the place of many events which caused the American Revolution, such as the Boston Tea Party and the Battle of Lexington and Concord. It was also a center of the anti-slavery movement. Maine used to be part of Massachusetts, but split off in 1820.


Tallahassee, Florida

Tallahassee is the capital city of the U.S. state of Florida. As of 2020 Tallahassee has a population of 196,169 people.

The name comes from the Apalachee Native American words: "talwa" meaning town, and "ahassee" meaning old.

Tallahassee was created as the capital of Florida during the territory's second legislative session. It was chosen as the midpoint between St. Augustine and Pensacola, which had been the capitals of the Spanish and British colonies of East Florida and West Florida, respectively. (At that time, very few people lived in the swamps of South Florida.) The first session of Florida's Legislative Council–as a territory of the United States–met on July 22, 1822 at Pensacola and members from St. Augustine traveled fifty-nine days by water to attend. The second session was in St. Augustine and required western delegates to travel perilously around the peninsula on a twenty-eight day trek. During this session, it was decided that future meetings should be held at a half-way point to reduce the distance. Two appointed commissioners selected Tallahassee, at that point an abandoned Apalachee settlement, as a halfway point. In 1824, the third legislative session met there in a crude log capitol. Also in 1824, Marquis de Lafayette, French hero of the American Revolution, returned for a grand tour of the United States. The US Congress voted to give him $200,000 (the same amount he had given the colonies in 1778), US citizenship, and the Lafayette Land Grant, of land that today includes large portions of Tallahassee. In 1845, a Greek revival masonry structure was erected as the Capitol building in time for statehood.

In 1977, a 23-story high-rise Capitol building designed by architect Edward Durell Stone was completed. It is now the third-tallest state capitol building in the United States. In 1978, the old capitol was scheduled for demolition, but the State Of Florida decided to keep the Old Capitol as a museum and point of interest.

The city is the location of two important universities, Florida State University and Florida A&M University.

1227

Year 1227 (MCCXXVII) was a common year starting on Friday of the Julian calendar.



