Minesweeper (video game)


Minesweeper is a strategy game that comes with most Microsoft computer operating systems. It is available for many other operating systems and desktop environments as well. The object of the game is to clear a minefield of mines. By clicking on blocks, the player learns if the block contains a mine. If they do not see a mine, the game continues. If they clicked on a mine, the game is over. When the player clicks on a block, a number may appear. The number shows how many mines are next to this square. This helps the player find out where the mines are.

The most common variation of the game is won when every block that does not contain a mine has been clicked, although some variations are won by having every block that contains a mine flagged.

There are many versions out there:

Fishing

Fishing is the activity of trying to catch fish. Fishing can be done in the sea, or in a lake or river, and by boat or from the shore.

Fish are normally caught in the wild. Techniques for catching fish include hand gathering, spearing, netting, angling and trapping.

The term fishing may be used for catching other aquatic animals such as molluscs, cephalopods, crustaceans, and echinoderms. The term is not normally used for catching farmed fish. With aquatic mammals, such as whales, the term whaling is better.

According to FAO statistics, the total number of commercial fishermen and fish farmers is estimated to be 38 million. Fisheries and aquaculture provide direct and indirect employment to over 500 million people in developing countries. In 2005, the worldwide per capita consumption of fish captured from wild fisheries was 14.4 kilograms, with 7.4 kilograms more got from fish farms. In addition to providing food, modern fishing is also a recreational sport.
Fishing for money is a very dangerous job, because people can die or be badly hurt. Fishing gives a lot of food to many countries around the world, but those who take it as a job must often go far into the ocean under bad conditions. Commercial fishermen get many kinds of sea animals. This includes fish such as tuna, cod, and salmon, as well as invertebrates such as shrimp, lobster, clams, and squid. Alaskan king crab fishing is a famous example. Ways to fish for money have become very simple, using large nets and machines to catch the animals. Many countries have made rules limiting how much fish people can catch, because some kinds have become scarce.

Raising fish in the forms of aquaculture and mariculture add to the free-range catch of fish.

Sport fishing is normally done with a fishing rod and line with any number of hooks to get the fish. This method is called "angling". There may be rules that say how many lines and hooks one fisherman can use and how many fish he can catch. Anglers in fresh water catch many Black Bass (Black Bass includes the entire range of Bass fish), Pike, Muskellunge, Perch, Carp, Trout, Salmon, and Sunfish. Fish people get in saltwater include Swordfish, Marlin, Tuna, and others. 

Rules generally do not allow the use of nets and catching fish with hooks not in the mouth. However some kinds of fish can be taken with nets for bait and a few for food. Non-sport fish that are not said to be worth as much can sometimes be taken by many ways like snagging, bow and arrow, or even gun, because they are seen as competing with more valuable fish.

Recreational fishing laws also include other life that lives in water, such as frogs and turtles.

Sport fishing can be a contest where fishermen try to get more fish than other fishermen. This sport came from local fishing contests into a large contest in the U.S.A. where skilled fishermen can compete and be helped out by companies giving prize money, and other large contests around the world.

Catch-and-release fishing is increasingly practiced especially by fly fishermen, as well as spin and bait casting fishermen, to increase conservation and to protect rare fish such as marlin. The practice is however disputed as it by some is considered unethical to perform painful actions to the fish for fun and not for the reason of food production. Because of this, catch-and-release practice is illegal in Norway.

Fish can also be collected in ways that do not injure them (such as in a seine net), for observation and study or for keeping in Aquarium. There is a substantial industry devoted to the collection, transport, export and farming of wild and domesticated live fish, usually freshwater or marine tropical fish.
Fish can also be collected in ways that do not injure them (such as in a seine net), for observation and study or for keeping in Aquarium. There is a substantial industry devoted to the collection, transport, export and farming of wild and domesticated live fish, usually freshwater or marine tropical fish.

In the past, fishing has been so good for getting money that people began overfishing (fishing too much) - a serious problem that does lots of damage (bad). Overfishing does not always mean extinction, but simply that a fish type has been harvested so that there cannot be as many of that kind of fish as before. As more boats are sent out to catch the fish, many population levels of a type of fish can drop. Then, there are not enough of that kind of fish left to have new kinds of fish.

Many times, fishing boats catch fish they do not mean to catch, called "bycatch". All kinds of fish can become bycatch, and they are usually thrown back into the sea after they have died. Drift net fishing sometimes catches creatures like seals, dolphins, whales, and sea turtles. This kind of fishing made people complain. In the 1980s, it was guessed that 18 miles (30 km) of nets were lost every night, tangling up boats and animals.

There is now a floating pile of plastic in the Pacific Ocean hundreds of miles wide. Most of it is lost fishing nets, called ghost nets, and other fishing tools from large boats.


Confederate States of America

The Confederate States of America (CSA) was a short-lived government that existed in the southern United States during the American Civil War. It was established (made) in 1861 by seven southern states in which slavery was legal, after Abraham Lincoln was elected president of the U.S., but before he took office. South Carolina, Mississippi, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, and Texas declared their secession (independence) from the United States. After war began, Virginia, Arkansas, Tennessee, and North Carolina joined them. The first capital of the Confederacy was Montgomery, Alabama, but for most of the war the capital was Richmond, Virginia.

The government of the Confederacy was much like the United States government. The Confederate States Constitution was similar to that of the United States; however, it emphasized states' rights and clearly protected the enslavement of black Americans. Jefferson Davis was chosen as president and Alexander Stephens as vice-president. As in the United States, the CSA president had a cabinet of advisors.

The United States government (also known as the Union) did not agree that the states could leave and start a new government. Thus, the Union government refused to abandon all its forts in the states that wanted to secede. War began when the CSA attacked one of those forts, Fort Sumter in Charleston, South Carolina. This war is known as the American Civil War, and it lasted from 1861 to 1865. After some of the deadliest battles in U.S. history, Union forces gradually regained control of southern states. As Confederate forces surrendered, the Confederacy fell apart and the Civil War came to a close in 1865. Following the war, slavery was outlawed everywhere in the United States. The process of restoring the states of the CSA to the Union, called the Reconstruction of the United States, continued until 1877.

It is still undecided if the Confederate States of America was ever a country. The Union never said that the Confederacy was really a country. Although British and French companies sold ships and materials to the Confederacy, no nation officially recognized the CSA as an independent country.

The CSA was also called "the South," "the Confederacy," and "Dixie."


A Tale of Two Cities

A Tale of Two Cities is a book written by Charles Dickens. It was published (printed) in 1859. It is set during the time of the French Revolution (1775-1793). The story happens in France and England. It talks about the French Revolution and the troubles the poor go through and how the rich ignore them. The main characters are Sydney Carton, Charles Darnay and their love interest, Lucie Manette. The story's main theme is society. 

Fiji

Fiji is an island country in the Pacific Ocean. It has 322 islands. The most important islands are Vanua Levu and Viti Levu. The capital city and the city with the most people is Suva. There are about 844,330 people in Fiji.
The official languages of Fiji are Fijian, English and Hindustani (a mix of Hindi and Urdu). Fiji is part of the Pacific Rim. About 313000 speak Fiji Hindi.

In the 17th and 18th centuries, the Dutch and the British explored Fiji. Fiji was a British colony up until 1970; British occupation lasted almost a century.

Fiji has many forest, mineral, and fish resources.

Fiji is divided into Four Major Divisions:

These divisions are divided into 14 provinces:

"Fijian law defines "towns" as urbanized areas incorporated as municipal bodies, governed by Town Councils."
"The following localities are urbanized, but have not been municipally organized."

Fiji has a lot of tourism and many people go to the Nadi and Denarau islands. Most visitors are from Australia, New Zealand and the USA. Fiji has many soft coral reefs. Scuba diving is a common tourist activity. More budget resorts are being opened in remote areas, which provides more tourism opportunities.


Fijian language

The Fijian language is a Austronesian language. It is one of the official languages of Fiji. It has about 350,000 speakers.

Legend

"Legends" (derived from Latin "legenda") are stories in oral tradition passed on by word of mouth.

The word is also used for famous or historically significant people, places, events, etc. We sometimes say of someone who is extremely famous that they are a "legend" or "of legendary fame".

Examples of legends are Ali Baba, the Fountain of Youth, Paul Bunyan, Bogeyman, Kraken, Sirens, Atlantis, the Loch Ness Monster, Bigfoot, and Yeti. Some legends are stories about real people; others are not. Odysseus and Robin Hood for example may have been real but most the stories about them are definitely fiction.

For some places, legends are the earliest history. For example, the origin of ancient Rome is known only from legends, as are the earliest dynasties in the history of China.

Fountain of Youth

The Fountain of Youth is a legendary spring. People talked about it for thousands of years. They thought its water could make people young and healthy. Herodotus put it in the Horn of Africa. Later stories said it was in India. A Spanish explorer, Juan Ponce de Leon, was said to have looked for it while in present-day Florida. 

Ho Chi Minh City

Ho Chi Minh City () is a city in southern Vietnam. It is governed as a municipality and includes a large rural area. It is the biggest city in Vietnam. About 9 million people live in the city. 

Before its fall on 30 April 1975, the city used to be called "Saigon", and this is still the most common name in everyday conversation. The name Saigon come from the Saigon River, which flows through the city. 

It used to be a Khmer port city called Prey Nokor, or “Jungle City”. The city was taken over by the Vietnamese and eventually took the name of"(Sài Gòn)". It was invaded by the French in 1859. As (French) Saigon it was the capital of French Indochina and became an important city in French colonial trade. After independence(from France), in 1954 to 1975, Saigon became the capital of the Republic of Vietnam. After the end of the US campaign (1973) in the Vietnam War, Saigon was overtaken by the North Vietnamese army on 30 April 1975 and renamed after Hồ Chí Minh. The tradition of naming places in Vietnam after great people is very common. Many streets bear the names of epic heroes. Hai Ba Trung street is named after heroic sisters.

Despite the name change, many people from other countries, and even among Vietnamese people, still call the city "Saigon" today. Interestingly enough, both the names of the Saigon River and the Saigon railway station have stayed unchanged.

Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC) has expanded with industrialization. It now includes all of the surrounding towns. The city center is old Saigon. Old Saigon has two main districts (One and Three). The new city districts used to be rice fields and fish farms. There are fish all over the city.

Ho Chi Minh City is as flat as the river plain it sits on. Nearly all roads are built flat. Bicycle riding around the Mekong delta is very easy in dry weather. Because of the flatness, roads and buildings sink into the draining soil. Lying water keeps pollution very close to city homes. The rising tides can flood many districts when the moon is fullest. 
Because rainwater can't be kept in valleys or mountains, the city-water is dangerous to drink. Most people drink from large bottles of water - .
When the streets flood (in rain or tides) the dirt from drains returns onto the city. This has caused a lot of problems for the health of the people living in the city. Escaping sewer water makes people very sick in the tropical countries. Older people may avoid drinking more than a few drinks a day.

It's very tropical in the city. The trees in streets are cut down to half every year - but they grow back. Fresh food markets are all over the city. The city has so much rain, that drains and rivers surround every district.

The southeast of the province has the . It's a 752 square kilometre mangrove area between Ho Chi Minh City and the sea.
Inside the wetlands there are birds, deer, fish, frogs, insects, lizards, monkeys, otters, and snakes. The centipedes all around the city are very dangerous (maybe deadly to tiny animals). People catch and eat the snakes.

The wetlands and ecosystem has been designated as a biosphere reserve. Ho Chi Minh people get education on how to look after their biosphere reserve and wetlands.

The city is a river port on the Saigon River. Several larger terminals operate outside and inside of the city. Many small docks operate around the city. The river system leads out to sea at Vung Tau, or onto the Mekong delta.
Delivery of materials for the city can be made by boat. Farm produce distributors can arrive by boat in many districts outside the city.

The use of English is rising in HCMC. Many HCMC people will travel around the world by using English as their international language. Many other languages are studied. French was previously the most popular. Chinese is also very well known to many people.
The city has international schools that teach foreign children. All classes (except for languages) are given in the chosen language. Many international schools have chosen English as the primary language. Some of the international schools are named by their country of origin. The schools named after a country use the national language of that country.
English is a subject taught in all national schools.
Many HCMC parents use to improve their children's English. HCMC adults attend colleges to learn English.
Some HCMC people will go overseas to get foreign education. It can be through staying with relatives, attending boarding schools, joining programs, or with family.
English is taught at university in HCMC. It doesn't replace the national language at most universities. International universities might set a requirement for English or another language.


Wealthy people live a fantastic life in the city. But, others are very poor. Poor does not always mean without food, clothing, shelter, or work in HCMC. The cost of living in Vietnam helps even the poorest people to survive. Many temples, churches, charities, and government organizations help people that are even more misfortunate than the poor. But still, some ultra-poor people struggle with homelessness, and the tropical weather - they get very dark skin compared to other people.

There is a lot of entertainment for the people in the city. Many discos, bars, and clubs operate all around the city. Food is also a source of entertainment for people in HCMC. Very strange restaurants sell very strange food: scorpions, bats, rats and more. Tourists are amazed by what is eaten in HCMC.

The Mekong River delta is accessible from HCMC. It has a many rice, coconut, fish, and prawn farms. The main city is Can Tho City.
The mountain range of Vietnam is accessed via Dalat City.
The beaches of Vietnam are accessed via Vung Tau City or Phan Thiet City when leaving HCMC.
The border to Cambodia is the closest international exit point for tourists. This exit border takes people to Phnom Penh City.
Bien Hoa City is another industrial city to the northeast. Around there, the province of Binh Duong is growing through strong financial investment.


Apricot

An apricot is a drupe fruit. It is closely related to the plum.

The apricot comes from a small to medium-sized tree, tall, with a trunk up to 40 centimetres in diameter with spreading, dense canopy; leaves are shaped somewhat like a heart, with pointed tips, about 8 centimetres (3 inches) wide. 

Apricots contain many nutrients but is highest in vitamin C and potassium. A single apricot contains approximately 3.5 grams of vitamin C and 91 grams of potassium. 



