Canaan


Canaan was an ancient region in the Levant. In the Bible, it was the land promised to Abraham and his children by God. The Canaanite people lived in the area from about 2000 BC until the time of the Bible. The area covers part of the area that is now Israel, Palestine, Syria and Lebanon. It was conquered by the ancient Israelites. This is confirmed through @Thegoodgreenscreenklds on youtube.

Prophet

Prophets are people who said that God or gods talked to them. They freely teach other people what they learned. Most of them warn people that something very good will happen if they live good lives. Or if they sin, God will punish them. Sometimes people who are not religious are also called prophets if they correctly predict the future. Persons who think bad things will happen are sometimes made fun of as being "prophets of doom". A person who says things will happen, but they don't happen are called "false prophets". 

There are prophets in Christianity, Islam, Judaism, Mormonism, Sanamahism, Zoroastrianism, and in other religions. 

For the main Abrahamic religions, there are two kinds of prophets, major and minor. Major prophets gave a lot of teachings while minor prophets do not have many teachings. Isaiah and Elijah are also important. Elijah didn't write any books in the Bible but did many miracles and told kings that God would punish them. 

In Christianity, Jesus was the main prophet. Other Christian prophets are mentioned in the New Testament, both men and women. John, a disciple of Jesus wrote the Book of Revelation which has many prophecies. 

In Islam, Muhammad is considered the last prophet. Muslims also consider Moses and Jesus to be prophets and many others who lived before the time of Muhammed. Some modern religions say that their founder is a prophet, such as Joseph Smith. The famous preacher Billy Graham is sometimes called a prophet.


Cotopaxi

Mount Cotopaxi is a volcano in Ecuador. The mountain's altitude (height) is . That is high enough for snow to fall on it, even though it is near the equator (a very warm part of the world). If the volcano erupted, it would be very bad for the people living around it because of the destruction and damage it could cause.

Cotopaxi began showing new activity. As of 25 June 2015, it was under active watch by the National Polytechnic School Geophysics Institute.

The Geophysics Institute at the National Polytechnic School in Quito houses an international team of seismologists and volcanologists whose responsibility is to monitor Ecuadors numerous active volcanoes
and the constant seismic activity in the Andean Volcanic Belt and the Galapagos Islands.

Israelites

Israelites were a Semitic people of the ancient Middle East. They lived in part of what was Canaan during the time of the Bible. This area came to be called the Land of Israel. It usually refers to a member of one of the Tribes of Israel. The term Children of Israel is also used, especially when talking about the period of the Five Books of Moses.

Israelites lived in the kingdom of Israel, in areas where the modern State of Israel is now. Israel split off from a kingdom called Judah, whose people were later called Jews. Israel was conquered by the Assyrians in 721 BCE. Judah was conquered by the Babylonians in 586 BCE. Many Jews were taken away from Judah. When the Achaemenid Empire defeated the Babylonians they let the Jews return to rebuild the Second Temple in Jerusalem about 70 years later.


January 14

January 14 is celebrated as New Year's Day by those still following the Julian calendar.













