The region's principal nationalities include:


The most common religions in the Balkans are Eastern Orthodox and Catholic Christianity and Sunni Islam. Many different specific kinds of each faith are practiced, with each of the Eastern Orthodox countries having its own national church with its own patriarch.
Eastern Orthodoxy is the principal religion in the following countries:

Roman Catholicism is the principal religion in the following countries:

Islam is the principal religion in the following countries:

Bosnia and Herzegovina is a special case - 50% are Muslim Bosniaks, 31% are Serbian Orthodox, and 15% are Catholic Croats (therefore 46% are Christian). The remaining 4% adhere to other denominations of Christianity, other religions, or are irreligious. In Bulgaria, Dobruja in Romania, North Macedonia and West Thrace in Greece, a high Muslim Minority of different Ethinicity like Turks, Tatars, Torbesh, Pomak and Xoraxane Roma live there.

For more detailed information and a precise ethnic breakdown see articles about particular states:

However from the 1990s onwards, in part due to the negative historical and political connotations of the term "Balkans", especially since the wars and massacres of the 1990s in Yugoslavia in the western half of the region, the term Southeast Europe is becoming increasingly popular.


Bicentennial

A bicentennial is the two hundredth year of something. In the United States, bicentennial is commonly is used to refer to the year 1976. This is because 1976 is two hundred years after the country was started in 1776. In Australia it commonly means one of two bicentennials. The first, in 1970, was the two hundredth anniversary of James Cook finding Australia. The second, in 1988 was the two hundredth anniversary of the first white settlement on the continent.

Shropshire

Shropshire, sometimes known as Salop and sometimes shortened to Shrops in print, is a ceremonial county of England. It has no cities and only a few large towns - Shrewsbury, Telford, Ludlow and Oswestry. It is a very rural county with many hills, forests, farms and rivers within its borders.

The county borders Cheshire to the north, Staffordshire to the east, Worcestershire to the south-east, Herefordshire to the south and Powys and Wrexham County Borough, counties of Wales, to the west.

The county's county town is Shrewsbury, the birthplace of evolutionist Charles Darwin, however its largest town is Telford. Telford is known for its tourist attraction, Ironbridge Gorge. Ironbridge Gorge is the world's first iron structure. Shrewsbury is also the location of the Ditherington Flax Mill, also known as the Flaxmill Maltings, the world's the first iron-framed building. It is seen as the world's first skyscraper, described as ""the grandfather of skyscrapers"".

Places of interest in Shropshire include:



