1898


The year of 1898 was a common year (a year that had 365 days), and began on a Saturday.


Spanish–American War

The Spanish–American War was a war fought between Spain and the United States in 1898, partly because many people in Cuba, one of the last parts of the Spanish Empire, wanted to become independent. Many Americans also wanted their country to get a colonial empire.

Spain lost the sea war and so had to give up its colonies of Cuba, the Philippines, Puerto Rico, and Guam. All of those colonies, except for Cuba, became US colonies after the war.

Following reports of Spain abusing and killing Cubans, the United States sent warships to Cuba. Spain was losing control of Cuba and so put Cubans into concentration camps. The US sent ships to Cuba to try to make Spain to give up Cuba. The USS "Maine" (ACR-1) exploded in Havana harbor, killing about 260 people on board. "Remember the Maine" became a common wartime saying. US newspapers blamed Spain for the explosion without proof. Spain tried to avoid going to war, but pressure from US newspapers, called "yellow journalism," and ordinary people persuaded the US government to go to war. Some of them wanted Cuba to become independent, but others hoped that the US could build a colonial empire overseas since many European countries had already done so.

Volunteers throughout the country signed up for the war. Future US President Theodore Roosevelt raised troops and became famous by leading the Rough Riders during the Battle of San Juan Hill. 

In a big naval battle in Manila Bay, an American fleet, commanded by George Dewey, destroyed the Spanish fleet. Ground battles took place in Cuba and Puerto Rico.

The US won the war and soon began to occupy and to take control of the colonies after Spain had surrendered. Almost 400 American soldiers died during fighting, but more than 4000 Americans died from diseases such as yellow fever, typhoid, and malaria.

The war stopped when the Treaty of Paris was signed on December 10, 1898 by the United States and Spain. The United States became the owners of Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Philippines, Later, it also got the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base.


Infection

Infection is the invasion of an organism's body tissues by disease-causing agents. The disease is caused by the invading agents multiplying. As they multiply, they produce toxins and damage host tissues. Infectious disease, also known as 'transmissible disease' or 'communicable disease', is illness resulting from an infection.






