404


404 was a leap year starting on Friday.


1651

1651 was a common year.


Playing card

Playing cards is the name for the 52 cards used in card games like poker, bridge, blackjack, solitaire and other games.

There are 52 basic cards in a deck (not including the jokers). These cards have a suit and a number (called the value or rank). There are 4 suits and 13 ranks in each suit. Decks may include a wide variety of regional and national patterns, and different deck sizes. The English pattern of cards is so widespread that it is often also known as the International or Anglo-American pattern.

Usual signs: spades (♠), hearts (♥), diamonds (♦), clubs (♣).

In some countries different suit signs may be used. In central Europe, there are cards with the suit signs of acorns, leaves, hearts, and bells. In Spain, Italy and Latin America, there are playing cards with the suits of clubs, swords, cups, and coins and Aces

2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, Jack or Knave (J), Queen (Q), King (K), Ace (A).

For many games, the Jokers are removed from the deck, making the total number of cards in the deck 52. Sometimes the deck is reduced to 40, 36, or 32 cards for playing certain games, like belote, sheepshead or euchre.

There are various types of tarot cards. Tarots are commonly used for fortune-telling, although they can also be used for playing games. Conversely, people have also used standard playing cards for fortune-telling.

Playing cards have been found in 9th century China, Tang dynasty.

Playing cards first entered Europe in the early 14th century, probably from Egypt. The suits were very similar to the tarot suits of Swords, Staves, Cups and Coins. These designs are still used in traditional Italian, Spanish, and Portuguese card decks.

The first documentary evidence is from Vitoria-Gasteiz (now Spain) in 1334, in which the Knights of the Band are forbidden to play cards. The next record is from Catalonia in 1371.
Wide use of playing cards in Europe can be traced from 1377 onwards.

The method of making cards has stayed the same for over a century. Cards are two thin pieces of paper stuck together with black paste. Both outer sides are printed. Inside is the design of the card face, the outer is the design for the pack as a whole. The black paste is essential to prevent sight of the face coming through when light shines on the face side. The use of the paste is the reason cards are sometimes called "pasteboards".

One or two packs at a time are printed on large sheets of paper, already pasted. The individual cards are stamped out by a machine which acts like a cookie-cutter. It cuts 36,000 cards per hour. A tiny fraction of a second later the edges of the cards are squashed extra-thin. This is not obvious to the naked eye, but the effect is that the cards slide easily past each other during shuffling.

Printed paper cards hold about 97.5% of the world market. Plastic cards do exist: they were first invented in the 1930s. They last longer than papercards, but have only 2.5% of the market.


Emperor

An emperor (female equivalent: empress) is a male who rules an empire. The word is taken from the Latin language "Imperator". Often it is capitalized.

A woman who comes to power in an empire is called an empress. The wife of an emperor is also called an empress. An emperor or empress is often a hereditary monarch and comes to power when one of his parents, or relatives, dies. In some countries, people elected a new emperor from candidates. 

The only emperor in the world today is the Emperor of Japan ("tennō"), but he lacks political power. The true leaders of Japan are the Diet and Prime Minister because the country is a parliamentary constitutional monarchy.

The English word comes from Latin, the language of the old Roman Empire. At first, an "imperator" was a powerful general (army leader) but, after Augustus, it was only used by their most powerful rulers. There have been many countries in history whose leaders are called "emperors" in English. The leaders of the Byzantine Empire ("basileus", "Autokrator") in Greece, the Holy Roman Empire ("imperator", "Kaiser") in Austria and Germany, Russian Empire, Serbia , and Bulgaria ("tsar"), and the Ottoman Empire ("sultan", "padishah", "khagan", "kaysar") in Turkey all said they were just new parts of the old Roman Empire. 

The leaders of other countries who said they ruled the whole world or called themselves "King of Kings" are frequently also called emperors in English. For example, the old rulers of China ("Huangdi"), Iran ("Shah"), and Ethiopia ("Negusa negast") are all known as emperors in English. There have also been emperors of France, Brazil , and Mexico, and the rulers of the United Kingdom called themselves the Emperors and empresses of India for a while.



