Istanbul


Istanbul, formerly known as Constantinople, is a mega city that sits in both Europe and Asia, divided by the Bosporus. Although it is the largest city of Turkey, it is not the capital. It is the largest city in Europe by population. It is also the 3rd largest European city in size. It was the capital city of the old Ottoman Empire until 1923. The city has been known since ancient times by the older names Byzantium and Constantinople (; , "Konstantinoúpolis"). Being a seaport, Istanbul is the main trade center of Turkey.

Part of Istanbul is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

Istanbul faces the Golden Horn and the Bosporus strait. The Bosphorus connects the Black Sea and the Sea of Marmara, and separates Europe and Asia. It's the only city around the world that is on two different continents. The city is actually in both Europe and Asia. One-third of the people live on the Asian side. Its population is between 11 and 15 million people, making it one of the largest cities in Europe. Many people migrate to Istanbul every year.

Its original name was "Byzantion" in the Greek language, known as "Byzantium" in the Latin language. Byzantium was originally settled as a colony by Greeks from Megara in 667 BC and named after their king, Byzas. In 196 AD, Byzantium was damaged by the Romans, then rebuilt by the Roman Emperor Septimius Severus. Constantine the Great thought this city was in a nice location, and in 330, moved the capital of the Empire from Rome to there, as "New Rome" (Latin: "Nova Roma"; "", "Nea Rómi"), renaming the city "Constantinople", after his name.

When the Roman Empire was later divided into two, the East Roman Empire was known as the Byzantine Empire, and its capital was in Constantinople, where Hagia Sophia had been built. Although it was captured by Crusaders for a time, it continued as one of the political, cultural, religious, and economic centers of Europe until it finally fell to the Ottoman Turks in 1453.

Istanbul became the capital of the Ottoman Empire in 1453. After the Ottoman Empire ended, the Republic of Turkey was started with its capital at Ankara. Later in 1930, Constantinople was renamed Istanbul.

The Romanlar (Turkish Gypsys) have lived in Istanbul since 1054 at Sulukule, well known for their Music and Dance style. After 1453, by order of Mehmed II, Roma was settled in Istanbul from other parts of the Ottoman Empire. In some cases, they live in several Mahallas (quarters) together with Turks in Istanbul in the European and Asian parts of this city.


ABBA

ABBA is a Swedish pop music group, who had many hits in the 1970s in Stockholm and early 1980s. ABBA was the most commercially successful pop group of the 1970s.

ABBA became very popular after they won the Eurovision Song Contest in 1974. They had many hits. These included "Dancing Queen", "SOS", "Money, Money, Money", "Mamma Mia", and "Waterloo". Most of their songs were written by Ulvaeus and Andersson.

They originally broke up in 1982, but their music is still popular. It has appeared in movies (including the Australian movies "The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert" and "Muriel's Wedding"). The stage musical "Mamma Mia!" was developed from their music and subsequently made into a 2008 movie followed ten years later by a 2018 sequel "Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again."

The name "ABBA" is made from the first letter of each member's first name:

All four ABBA members had local music careers before ABBA even formed. Frida and Agnetha were both solo singers. Benny and Bjorn both had their own individual bands. In 1966, Benny and Bjorn both met and decided to write songs together. In 1969, Bjorn met Agnetha and Benny met Frida. All four friends met together and decided to work together to record songs.

By 1970, they were known as "Bjorn & Benny (With Svenska Flicka)". Later they were called Bjorn & Benny, Agnetha & Frida. Their first hit was a song called "Hej, gamle man". By 1971, Bjorn and Agnetha were married and Benny and Frida were engaged. It wasn't until 1973 that the group became officially known as ABBA. The name was suggested by their manager, Stig Anderson.

"Ring Ring" in 1973 was when the group achieved success throughout much of Europe and Africa. They entered the Swedish song contest Melodifestivalen in 1973 and finished in third place. They returned to Melodifestivalen the next year with "Waterloo" and won. This gave them the chance to perform in the Eurovision Song Contest. With "Waterloo", they won and soon got global success.

In 1976, ABBA released "Dancing Queen", which is often known as ABBA's "signature song" and "one of the greatest pop songs ever written". During 1977, their huge popularity became known as "Abbamania". In Australia, ABBA played in huge concerts that usually always sold out. "ABBA: The Movie" was also released in 1977 during the height of the group's popularity. Throughout the mid and late 1970's ABBA performed in Europe, The United States, Japan and Australia.

In early 1979, Agnetha and Bjorn divorced. In early 1981, Frida and Benny also got divorced. This led to many sadder and more mature songs over the next few years. By 1981, ABBA's popularity was declining. Their last album, "The Visitors" a not a big success like previous albums. "The Day Before You Came" was the last song ABBA ever recorded together, while "Under Attack" was the last song ever released, both in 1982. ABBA broke up shortly before 1983 and all members continued on their independent music careers, just like before they had met.

Even though they split up, they have remained very popular and many of their songs are still listened to by many people. The musical and movie "Mamma Mia!" was made, which is a story featuring ABBA's main songs. Ulvaeus and Anderson both appear in the movie. Ulvaeus also made an appearance on video at the Eurovision Song Contest 2023. Due to Sweden's win at Eurovision 2023, the next contest will be hosted in Sweden and also marks the celebration of 50 years since ABBA won.

In addition, in 2022, a concert in London opened named ABBA Voyage. People can go to watch virtual avatars of ABBA performing.

ABBA recorded eight albums between 1973 and 1981, as well as some compilation albums.



