Guan Yu


Guan Yu (160 – 219) was a Chinese general. He helped his sworn brother Liu Bei to fight the dynasty of Wei, which had seized the throne from the last Han emperor. He was also the sworn brother of Zhang Fei, another warrior of Liu Bei.

The Three Brothers conquered the Southwest of China and founded a Dynasty named Shu Han because Liu Bei claimed to be the rightful heir of the Han Dynasty. They also battled with Eastern Wu, another Chinese dynasty at the time, and during one of the battles, Guan Yu was captured by the Wu general Lü Meng and executed, along with his son Guan Ping.

In later centuries, Guan Yu became a Chinese deity and was given the name Guan Gong, meaning "Lord Guan."

Subsistence farming

Subsistence farming is farming done by farmers who have small plots, or little water, or otherwise grow enough only for themselves. Literally, subsistence agriculture means no extra food is produced to sell or trade. This means farming doesn't give them money to buy things. However, today true subsistence farmers are few. Most also do trading to some degree. From time to time they may need money to buy essential things to keep going.

Subsistence farmers may also move from place to place for nomadic herding (see nomadic people).

Examples:

Subsistence farmers are those who grow crops and raise animals for their own consumption and to meet the basic needs of their families or communities. They do not produce surplus food for trade or sale. Subsistence farming is common in rural areas of developing countries, where farmers may lack access to modern agricultural technologies, markets, and financial resources. However, it can also be found in other parts of the world, including some rural communities in developed countries where people still engage in traditional farming practices.

Subsistence farming can provide food security, sustainability, community building, and resilience for the farmers and their families. However, it also faces a number of challenges, such as:

- The impacts of climate change: Climate change can affect the availability and quality of water, soil, and seeds, as well as the frequency and intensity of natural disasters, such as droughts, floods, and pests. These can reduce the crop yields and livestock productivity of subsistence farmers, and increase their vulnerability to food insecurity and poverty.

- Low levels of education: Many subsistence farmers have limited access to formal education and literacy, which can limit their ability to acquire new skills and knowledge, and to adopt innovative methods to improve their farming practices and livelihoods.

- Lack of knowledge regarding innovative methods to increase productivity and sustainability: Subsistence farmers may not be aware of or have access to improved seeds, fertilizers, irrigation systems, pest management, and other modern agricultural technologies that can help them increase their crop yields and quality, and reduce their environmental impact.

- A shortage of labour skills to ensure the succession of subsistence farming: Subsistence farming is often a family or community activity, where the elders pass on their knowledge and skills to the younger generations. However, due to urbanization, migration, and changing aspirations, many young people may not be interested in or able to continue the subsistence farming tradition, which can threaten the future of this type of farming.

River Clyde

The River Clyde (, ) is a river in Scotland. It flows through Glasgow before opening up into the Firth of Clyde.


Electric charge

Electric charge is a basic property of electrons, protons and other subatomic particles. Electrons are negatively charged while protons are positively charged. Things that are negatively charged and things that are positively charged pull on (attract) each other. This makes electrons and protons stick together to form atoms. Things that have the same charge push each other away (they "repel" each other). This is called the "Law of Charges". It was discovered by Charles-Augustin de Coulomb. The law that describes how strongly charges pull and push on each other is called Coulomb's Law.

Things that have equal numbers of electrons and protons are "neutral". Things that have more electrons than protons are negatively charged, while things with fewer electrons than protons are positively charged. Things with the same charge repel each other. Things that have different charges attract each other. If possible, the one with too many electrons will give enough electrons to match the number of protons in the one that has too many protons for its load of electrons. If there are just enough electrons to match the extra protons, then the two things will not attract each other anymore. When electrons move from a place where there are too many to a place where there are too few, that is called an electrical current.

When a person shuffles their feet on a carpet and then touches a brass doorknob, they may get an electrical shock. If there are enough extra electrons then the force with which those electrons push each other away may be enough to make some of the electrons jump across a gap between the person and the doorknob. The length of the spark is a measure of voltage or "electrical pressure." The number of electrons that move from one place to another per unit of time measured as amperage or "rate of electron flow."

If a person gets a positive or negative charge, it may make the person's hairs stand up because the charges in each hair push it away from the others.

Electric charge felt when one gets a shock from a doorknob or other object usually is between 25 thousand and 30 thousand volts. However, the electric current only flows briefly, so the flow of electrons through the person's body does not cause physical harm. On the other hand, when clouds gain electrical charges they have even higher voltages and the amperage (the number of electrons that will flow in the lightning strike) can be very high. That means that electrons can jump from a cloud to the earth (or from the earth to a cloud). If those electrons go through a person, then the electric shock can burn or kill.

The following experiment is described by James Clerk Maxwell in his work "A Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism" (1873). Normally, glass and resin are both neutrally charged. However, if they are rubbed together and then separated, they will become able to attract each other.

If a second piece of glass is rubbed with a second piece of resin, the following things will be seen:


If a charged and an uncharged object are brought together, attraction will be very weak.

Bodies that are able to attract or repel things in this way are said to be 'electrified', or to be 'charged with electricity'. When two different substances are rubbed together, an electrical charge is produced because one of them will give electrons to the other. The reason is that the atoms in the two substances have unequal power to attract electrons. So the one that is more able to attract electrons will take electrons from the one that has a lower attractive force. If glass is rubbed against something else, it may either give or take electrons. What happens depends on what the other thing is.

Things that have taken electrons are called "negatively charged", and things that have given up electrons are called "positively charged". There is no special reason for these names. It is just an arbitrary (random choice) convention (agreement).

Besides being electrified by friction, bodies may be electrified in many other ways.


Argyroxiphium

Argyroxiphium is a small genus of plants in the sunflower family, Asteraceae. Its members are known by the common names of silversword or greensword due to their long, narrow leaves and the silvery hairs on some species.

The Silversword plant grows only at high elevations on the Island of Maui in Hawaii.

It is a noticeable, round-shaped rosette plant with rigid (swordlike), succulent leaves densely covered by silver hairs. When a plant flowers at the end of its life, it produces a spectacular flowering stalk 0.5-2.0 m (1.6-6.4 ft) tall, typically with hundreds of maroon sunflowerlike flower heads. This plant receives more attention from visitors to Haleakala National Park than any other plant or animal because of its striking appearance and restricted distribution.

The strikingly beautiful Haleakala silversword has always aroused the curiosity of human visitors to Haleakala Volcano. In pre-park days, plants were often removed by travelers to Haleakala Volcano as proof that the party had reached the summit, a practice that eventually seriously affected the silversword population. Browsing by feral goats and domestic cattle was also a significant factor in the silversword decline, but it was not a species preferred by these animals. By the 1920s, silversword numbers were so depleted that the Maui Chamber of Commerce sent a petition to Washington, DC, requesting that a serious effort be made to save the species (Loope and Crivellone 1986).

Mr. Pacman

Mr. Pacman is an American pop music band from Colorado. They use sounds from old video games to create their music. Mr. Pacman has recorded 2 CDs & made 4 music videos.


Music video

A music video or music clip is a short movie that represents a song on a television screen. Most music videos feature the artist who recorded the song singing or lip-syncing it on screen. TV network channels that are famous for playing music videos are MTV, VH1, BET, and CMT.

In most countries in East Asia, music videos are called PVs. PV stands for "Promotional Video."

Hip hop

Hip hop is a type of culture/art style that started in the 1970s in the Bronx. It began in Jamaican American, African American, Arab American and Puerto Rican/Hispanic and Latino American urban areas in some of the larger cities of the United States. Hip hop uses drumbeats produced by a drum machine, and rapping, where the rapper or group chants or says words with a rhythm that rhymes. The lyrics of hip hop songs are often about the life of urban people in the big cities. Hip hop music also uses musical styles from pop such as disco. Rap and hip hop music have become successful music genres.

Hip hop's connection to reggae music goes beyond mere musical influence; it is rooted in the shared cultural experiences of the African diaspora. DJ Kool Herc, a key figure in the early development of hip hop in the Bronx, was a Jamaican immigrant who brought with him the tradition of 'toasting' from reggae culture. This practice, involving rhythmic spoken word over music, evolved into the rapping style central to hip hop. The use of sound systems, another reggae staple, played a crucial role in the block parties where hip hop culture flourished. Thus, reggae's influence is integral to the formation of hip hop, not just as a musical genre, but as a cultural movement.

Hip hop as a culture involves the music as well as a style of dressing called "urban" clothes (baggy pants, Timberland leather work boots, and oversize shirts); a dancing style called breakdancing or "B-boying"; and graffiti, a street art in which people paint pictures or words on walls. In the 2000s, hip hop music and hip hop culture are very popular in the United States and Canada. Hip hop musicians usually use nicknames. Many of the popular hip hop musicians from the 2000s use nicknames, such as Snoop Dogg, Jay-Z, Eminem, Lil Wayne, and 50 Cent. Hip hop is sometimes fused with other genres such as country and rock.

Rapping is a form of singing. It is a mix between singing and talking. The words are spoken with rhythm and in the text there are rhymes. The urban youth made rhyming games based on rap. The beat in the background is a simple loop that is sometimes made by the rapper themself or sometimes copied from a sample CD. The simple loop carries out through the entire song usually, except for the chorus. It developed in the ethnic minority urban (city) areas, as an American form of Jamaican "toasting" (chanting and rhyming with a microphone).

Run DMC and The Sugarhill Gang were early popular hip hop groups in the 1980s. When rappers began to use violent language and gestures, the music was then liked by gangsters. This kind of music was called "gangsta rap". Gangsta rap often has lyrics which are about guns, drug dealing and life as a thug on the street. This genre also began in the 1980s and is still produced.

Some well known early rappers include: Tupac Shakur, Nas, Snoop Dogg, The Notorious B.I.G., Eminem, and Sean "P-Diddy" Combs. During the 1990s there was a rivalry between the two big record labels "Death Row Records" and "Bad Boy Records". The rappers Tupac Shakur and Notorious B.I.G. were murdered. Later, the two record labels stopped the rivalry. Because most of the rappers who rapped for "Death Row Records" were from the West Coast of the US and most of the rappers who rapped for "Bad Boy Records" were from the East Coast, this rivalry was called "the West Coast – East Coast beef".

The fastest rapper according to Guinness World Records is Twista. In 1992, he rapped 11 syllables in one second. In 2013, the song Rap God by Eminem took the record for most words in a song; 1,560 in a little over 6 minutes, which is about 4 words per second.


Color blindness

People with color blindness cannot tell the difference between certain colors. They may not see colors at all. 

Most color blindness is inherited, usually as simple Mendelian inheritance. Sometimes, it is the result of damage to the eyes, nerves, or the brain. It can be caused by coming into contact with certain chemicals. 

Most color blindness is permanent. Some conditions can lead to temporary color blindness. During certain kinds of migraine, some people are unable to tell the difference between certain colors. There is no treatment cure for permanent color blindness.

Many more males are color blind than females. Between five and eight percent of males, but less than one percent of females, are color blind.

People usually think of color blindness as a disability. However, people who are color blind have one advantage: they are sometimes better at seeing through some types of camouflage.

In 1798, English chemist John Dalton published the first scientific article about color blindness. That was after he found out that he was color blind. The article was called "Extraordinary facts relating to the vision of colours". Because of this, the condition is sometimes called "daltonism". As of 2009, the word "daltonism" is used only for the type of color blindness called deuteranopia.

There are three steps in the process of telling the difference between colors:

Inside the human eye is a part called the retina. The retina receives the images that the eye sees. It sends the images to the brain. The retina has two types of cells: rod cells and cone cells. They work in different types of light. 


Parts of the thalamus and the visual cortex in the brain are involved in "seeing", also seeing colors. Color blindness can therefore also result if these areas of the brain, the optic nerve or the retina have been damaged. These types of color blindness happen because of an accident. They are not inherited. Inherited forms of color blindness affect the retina only. 

That way it is possible that only a part of the visual field is affected by color blindness, but in the rest, there is no color blindness. 

Some types of color blindness, but not "inherited" color blindness, can be cured.

There are several different problems that can cause color blindness. 

Total color blindness is very rare. People who suffer from it can only see in black, gray and white. They can perceive only differences in "brightness" and do not see "color". This is called "monochromacy".
There are two main types of total color blindness:

There are two kinds of red-green color blindness: protanopia or deuteranopia. Deuteranopia is the most common form of color blindness; between five and ten percent of males suffer from it. It is called Daltonism because John Dalton discovered it. Those affected have trouble telling the difference between red and green. As seen by protanopes (people suffering from protanopia), red is darkened. Most often, this is because they lack the receptors for long (protanopia) or medium (deuteranopia)-length light waves or because these receptors have changed their sensitivity.

Although the name is blue-yellow color blindness (tritanopia), people affected by this type of color blindness can usually tell the difference between blue and yellow. Instead they cannot tell the difference between blue and green, and also yellow and violet. It is different from the other types of color blindness because it is not linked to sex. It is equally possible for males or females to develop blue-yellow color blindness. It is caused by having few or no cones in the retina which can sense short wavelength light.

Sometimes, people do not have problems seeing color, but their brain has trouble "telling" the color, and interprets it wrongly. It is also possible that only certain parts of the eye have color blindness; people may become color blind because of other diseases, but after the disease goes away, see normally again. This seems to be the case with certain forms of migraine.

Males have one X and one Y chromosome; females have two X chromosomes. Many of the genes involved in making color vision work are on the X chromosome: they are sex linked. For this reason, men are more often affected by color blindness than women. 

The "color blind" gene allows non-color blind people to see the difference between red and green. The gene is located on the X chromosome. This means that a male will be color blind if the single X he inherits from his mother contains the color blind version of the "color blind" gene. A female will inherit color blindness only if she inherits two X chromosomes containing defective (mutant) color gene alleles. In other words, a female needs to inherit "color blind" genes from both parents in order to be color blind.

The Ishihara plate test has been in use since 1917. Each plate has an image with dots of different size and color. People will then "see" different images (most often numbers). Those with certain types of color blindness will see different numbers from those not affected by color blindness. 

Because many young children have not learned numbers yet, other tests have been developed. They use symbols, like a square, a circle or a car instead of numbers.

A color code is when there is much information in the color of certain item. Such codes cannot be understood easily by those who are color blind. For this reason, color should not be used alone to give information. Good graphic design avoids using color coding or color differences alone to give information. This does not only help color blind people, but also normally sighted people.

Cascading Style Sheets can be used on web pages. They allow to give a different color scheme for color blind people. Certain color scheme generators help graphic designers see color schemes as eight types of color blind people see them. 

Color blindness is very sensitive to changes in material. A red-green color blind person may be unable to see the difference between colors on a map printed on paper. The same map on a computer screen or television may appear normally. In addition, some color blind people find it easier to tell the difference between colors on artificial materials, such as plastic or in acrylic paints, than on natural materials, such as paper or wood. Thirdly, for some color blind people, color can only be distinguished if there is enough color: thin lines might appear black, but a thicker line of the same color can be seen in the correct color.
In certain cases when it is important to understand information very quickly, the visual system may drop the colors, and only work in shades of gray. This is important to know when designing the interfaces for objects that need to be used in an emergency situation, like emergency brakes, or emergency telephones. 

Because color blind people may not see the difference between colors such as red and green, some countries, such as Romania have refused to give them driving licenses. In Romania, people have started to change the laws so that color blind people will also be able to drive legally.

In the United Kingdom, electricity wires in houses used to be red, black and green. They were changed to brown, blue and green/yellow to help color blind people see the difference between the "live" and "earth" wires.

Many people do not understand color blindness. People who are color blind never swap the colors they are blind to. They may have trouble telling two colors from one another. That way they may have a problem finding the right kind of apple in the supermarket. The image below first shows the way that two apples look to a person with normal vision, and then the way it looks to a person with red-green color blindness. The left apple is a "Braeburn"; it is red in color. The apple on the right is a "Granny Smith"; it is green. To someone with red-green blindness, the apples look like they are almost the same color.

Sopron

Sopron ( ]; , ; Central Bavarian: "Ednburg", ) is a city of Hungary, near the western border of Hungary with Austria, at the foot of the Alps, 60 km from Vienna (in Austria) and 220 km from Budapest. The people of this city are famous for their loyalty to their country, and their hometown. A famous monument is 'Gate of Faith' which is the symbol of the people's faith to Hungary in 1921.
At the time of the Roman Empire, there was a city here called Scarbantia. The main square of Sopron is in the same place as the forum (or main square) of Roman times.

After this, the city was probably deserted. When the Hungarians arrived in the area, it was in ruins. In the 9th–11th centuries Hungarians strengthened the old Roman city walls and built a castle. The town got its Hungarian name of Sopron from a steward of the castle named Suprun. By 1153 it was an important town.

In 1273 King Otakar II of Bohemia took over the castle and took the children of Sopron's noble families as hostage. But the people of the city opened the gates when the army of King Ladislaus IV of Hungary arrived. The King Ladislaus made Sopron a free royal town.

In 1528 Hungary was invaded by Ottoman Turks who destroyed many parts of the city but did not take it over. Many people from other towns fled to Sopron for safety.

In 1676 most of the ancient buildings in the city were destroyed by a fire. When they were replaced, they were in a new style, called Baroque. Many of the Baroque buildings are standing today.

Sopron was an important town in the Austro-Hungarian Empire. After the World War I it became part of Austria. But the townspeople were not happy with this and in December 1921 they voted that the city should be part of Hungary. Since that day the city has been called "Civitas Fidelissima", ("The Most Loyal Town" which in Hungarian is "A Leghűségesebb Város"). A holiday is held every year to celebrate.

In World War II Sopron suffered badly. It was bombed several times. There were many Jewish people living in Sopron before the war. The Nazis and their Hungarian allies sent the Jews of Sopron to death camps and killed nearly all of them, as well as other people who disagreed with Nazi ideas.

The Soviet Red Army captured the city on April 1, 1945. Sopron, as part of Hungary, was ruled by a Socialist government. At this time many factories were built around Sopron. The Socialist government took away a lot of the freedom that people had. In August 1989, in Sopron there was a big protest against the Socialist government, which was called the "Pan-European Picnic". While this was happening more than 200 people who lived in East Germany (which was Socialist) escaped to the West. This was the beginning of a big change for all the Socialist countries of Europe. People who had not been allowed to travel or live in other countries were finally allowed to be free.

Hungary is now part of the European Union. Sopron now has trade with other countries, most importantly Austria. There are many German-speaking people who live in Sopron so most street signs are written in both Hungarian and German.

The city of Sopron shows signs of its long history in its buildings. There are still walls and foundations from the Ancient Roman times and also building from the Middle Ages. The medieval Kecske Church ("Goat Church") was where coronations (crowning kings) and parliament took place. There is also a very old Jewish synagogue.

Many old buildings whose architecture are from the 1600s and 1700s and are in the Baroque style which often has a lot of decoration. Stornó House is one of the most well-known buildings, because of its elegant Baroque architecture, its connection with King Matthias and its interesting collection. There is also a famous statue of the Holy Trinity from this time. the "Várkerület" is part of the city built where the ancient moat was; The inner row of houses follow the line of the castle wall. Várkerület has a famous Maria Statue. The Town Hall built in 1896 and the Ursuline Church is an important building in the Gothic Revival style.

Sopron is popular as a holiday place because it is set in beautiful countryside where people like to walk in the hills, enjoying the pure air, the forests and mountain springs. There are many hiking paths and look-out towers. Near to Sopron is Lake Fertő.
The Löverek, is a beautiful hilly area south of the city, with forests of spruce, oaks and chestnut trees. The flowers that bloom there include "Lily of the Valley" and cyclamens.

Sopron is a wine producing region, that is one of the few in Hungary to make both red and white wines. The grapes grown here include Kékfrankos for red wine and Traminer (Gewürztraminer) for white wine. In climate it is similar to the Burgenland wine region nearby in Austria, and several winemakers make wine in both countries. The group of ethnic German winegrowers in the Sopron area were the so-called Ponzichter.

MFC Sopron is a football team based in Sopron.


Sumo

In sumo, a wrestler ("rikishi") attempts to force another wrestler out of a circular ring (the "dohyō") 4.55 metres in diameter. Also, the "rikishi" try to use their skill to force an opponent to touch the ground with anything other than the soles of his feet.

Sumo tournaments ("basho") take place in Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya and Fukuoka. There are a total of 6 major professional tournaments (known as "honbasho") per year, in January, March, May, July, September and November.

A tournament normally lasts for 15 days and features matches from different divisions. The top 5 ranks are known as the "Top division", also called the "Makuuchi" (幕内) or "Makunouchi" (幕の内). It is fixed in size and always contains 42 "rikishi".

The ranks included in the top division are yokozuna, ozeki, sekiwake, komusubi and maegashira.

Sumo wrestlers ("rikishi") are ranked into a hierarchy based on win-loss statistics in competitive tournaments.

Those who have earned the highest rank are grand champions ("yokuzuna").

For a full list of those rikishi who have held the title of "Yokozuna", see List of yokozuna.

Sumo has changed in modern times. Foreign-born wrestlers are part of the sport. For example, Konishiki and Akebono are Hawaiian-born athletes who earned places for themselves.

In 2008, Kotooshu from Bulgaria won a championship. In that same year, two top wrestlers, Asashoryu and Hakuho, were Mongolian. Hakuho won the Nagoya tournament with no losses, 15-0.

List of districts of Germany

Germany is divided into 402 administrative districts. These consist of 295 rural districts ("Landkreise"), listed fully here, and 107 urban districts ("Kreisfreie Städte" / "Stadtkreise") - cities which constitute a district in their own right.

Bremen (state)

Bremen is the smallest and least populous state in Germany. It is a city-state with an area of . Bremen has a population of around 664,000 people.

The official name is "Freie Hansestadt Bremen". This is because Bremen used to be in the "Hanseatic League" which was a group of cities which did a lot of trading. Many goods were sent from the port of Bremen or bought from the port from other countries. "Free" means it was independent of the local dukes and princes.

Bremen has two major cities, these cities are Bremen and Bremerhaven. The local football club is named Werder Bremen.


Saxony-Anhalt

Saxony-Anhalt (, (; Low German: ) is a Bundesland (state) in Germany. It has an area of . 2,580,626 people live there. The capital is Magdeburg.

Some big cities and towns in Saxony-Anhalt are:

Erfurt

Erfurt is the capital city of the German state of Thuringia. It has an area of . In December 2015 it had a population of 210,000 people. The River Gera runs through the city.

People have lived in the area for about 100,000 years. The city was first mentioned in writing in 742, in a letter to the Pope from St Boniface. St Boniface established Christianity in the area. He set up a church in Erfurt in 742. Erfurt Cathedral was later built on the same site.

The city is in the centre of Germany. It was on the Via Regia, a medieval trade road network that stretched across Europe. It became an important trading centre in the Middle Ages. Erfurt was a member of the Hanseatic League, an alliance of trade associations and market towns. It was also famous for producing woad. Blue indigo dye is made from the woad plant.

Erfurt is on the Way of St. James pilgrams' path (Spanish: "Camino de Santigo"; German: "Jakobsweg"). In the Middle Ages a number of monasteries were set up in the city. Martin Luther, the father of the Reformation, lived at St. Augustine's Monastery from 1505 until 1511. A famous philosopher and theologian called Meister Eckhart lived at the Dominican Monastery from about 1275 until 1311.

The city was part of the Holy Roman Empire. It became part of the Kingdom of Prussia in 1802. From 1949 until 1990 Erfurt was in the communist German Democratic Republic (East Germany).

Seventeen people were killed in a mass shooting in 2002.

Modern day Erfurt is a transport hub for high speed trains and other German and European transport networks. This makes logistics one of its main industries. Other important industries are agriculture, horticulture and microelectronics.

The German Federal Labour Court (German:"Bundesarbeitsgericht") is in Erfurt.

The University of Erfurt was first set up in 1379. It closed in 1816, but was reopened in 1994. Martin Luther studied there from 1501 to 1505. It is also thought that Johannes Gutenberg, who developed the printing press, enrolled there in 1418. Erfurt also has a "Fachhochschule", a University of Applied Sciences.

Many visitors come to see the historic medieval town centre. One of the main tourist attractions is the Krämerbrücke (the Merchants' Bridge). The bridge was built in its current form in 1472. It has buildings with shops and houses on it. People still live on it.

The city is well known for its festivals throughout the year. Two million people visit the Christmas markets each year.

Other important sites in the city include:


Magdeburg

Magdeburg (; ) is the capital of the state of Saxony-Anhalt, in Germany. The city covers an area of . About 236,000 people live there (2016).

A demonstration of air pressure (called the Magdeburg spheres) was done here by Otto von Guericke in 1656. Also, the 18th century composer Georg Philipp Telemann was born here.


Romance languages

The Romance languages (also sometimes called Romanic languages) are a language family in the Indo-European languages. They started from Vulgar Latin (in Latin, "vulgar" is the word for "common" and so "Vulgar Latin" means "Common Latin"). The most spoken Romance languages are Spanish, Portuguese, French, Italian and Romanian.

They are called "Romance languages" because they originate from Latin, the language spoken by the Western Roman Empire. Their grammatical inflection system has been simplified and lost most of the complex case structure of classical Latin.

The area that the Romance languages are spoken in Europe is mostly extent of the Western Roman Empire. The Greek language superseded Latin in the Eastern Roman Empire. Latin survived in Romania, whose language, Romanian, is a Romance language. In Moldova it is sometimes called Moldovan.

The Romance language family is one of the biggest in the world, and in total, there are almost a billion first and second language speakers.

Spanish is the most widely used Romance language, with Portuguese as the second and then French coming in at third.

Spanish is spoken in Spain, United States, Latin America and some places of Africa. Portuguese is mostly used/spoken in Brazil, Portugal and parts of Africa. French is spoken in France, Belgium, Switzerland, Canada, and in some areas of Africa. Italian is spoken in Italy, San Marino, Malta and Vatican City. Romanian is spoken in Romania and Moldova.









