Tom Skerritt


Thomas Alderton Skerritt (born August 25, 1933) is an American actor. He was born in Detroit, Michigan. He is best known for his roles in the films "M*A*S*H" (1970), "Alien" (1979), and "Top Gun" (1986).

Trossingen

Trossingen is a town in South Germany (Baden-Württemberg). It is in a region called Baar, between the Swabian Alb and the Black Forest.

Trossingen is called a "music town". It has around 16,000 people who live there, there is the 'University of Music Trossingen', which is one of Baden-Württemberg's state conservatories, and there are other institutions specialized in musical education, like the 'Bundesakademie für musikalische Jugendbildung' and the 'Hohner Konservatorium'. In 1857 the Matthias Hohner company was founded. Today, Hohner harmonicas and accordions are famous all over the world. Trossingen houses the German Harmonica Museum, too. Trossingen also has a historic railway: the "Trossinger Eisenbahn". Several skeletons of the dinosaur "Plateosaurus engelhardti" were found in Trossingen during excavations in the early 20th century. The local museum Auberlehaus houses several of the original bones.


The Smurfs

The Smurfs are fictional little blue beings created by Peyo, a Belgian cartoonist. They first appeared in 1958, and later in a cartoon television show created by Hanna-Barbera Productions in the 1980s. On September 12, 1981, they were featured on NBC on Saturday mornings as a cartoon series. The little blue creatures from Belgium became popular among all ages.

A feature movie called "The Smurfs" was released in 2011. "The Smurfs 2" was a sequel released July 31, 2013.

The smurfs are very small. In cartoons in which they appear with humans, they are small enough to stand on a human hand.

Most Smurfs are male. There are only 3 females in the village: Smurfette, Sassette Smurfling, and Nanny Smurf.

Most Smurfs wear white pants and white Phrygian caps. Papa Smurf, Grandpa Smurf, and some of the Smurflings dress differently. Grandpa Smurf wears yellow clothes and Papa Smurf wears red clothes. The Smurflings are Sassette, Snappy, Slouchy, and Nat. Sassette and Nat do not dress like the other Smurfs at all, while Slouchy and Nat do dress like the others. In some comics, the Smurfs dress differently in color or clothing.

Smurfs live in mushroom-shaped houses in a village in a forest.



