Popeye


Popeye the Sailor Man is one of the most popular cartoon characters of all time. He first appeared in a comic strip called "Thimble Theatre" by E.C. Segar in 1929. Popeye is a sailor who smokes a pipe and mutters things under his breath. He has only one eye, he is short and uneducated, but when trouble occurs, usually saving his girlfriend, Olive Oyl from his nemesis, Bluto/Brutus, he eats a can of spinach, and gets super-strength.

Over the years, He also appeared in a series of cartoons made for movie theatres by Paramount Pictures, comic books, arcade, video games, hundreds of advertisements, peripheral products (ranging from spinach to candy cigarettes). In 2002, "TV Guide" ranked Popeye #20 on its "50 Greatest Cartoon Characters of All Time" list.

Popeye was created by E. C. Segar and was inspired by a man Segar knew in Chester, Illinois: Frank "Rocky" Fiegel. Popeye would make his debut in the January 17, 1929 "Thimble Theatre" strip "Dice Island" as a rough sailor for hire. While originally introduced as a minor character (with the actual star of the strips then being Castor Oyl), Popeye's popularity eventually grew to the point where he became the main character of "Thimble Theatre", with the strip now focusing on his adventures and hijinks. Initially, Popeye was portrayed as a very strong and seemingly uneducated but very savvy sailor who would gain extraordinary luck and resilience when he rubbed the magical Whiffle Hen Bernice, but by 1932, he began to favor spinach, crediting it as a healthy source of strength. As the strips started focusing more on Popeye, he began to form a relationship with Castor's sister Olive Oyl after she had left her previous boyfriend Ham Gravy, and the two would eventually go on to become one of the most recognizable couples in cartoon history.

After Popeye's run in the original "Thimble Theatre", he would return as the main character in the 1948 comic book series by E. C. Segar's assistant Bud Sagendorf, which combined elements from both the original "Thimble Theatre" and the Fleischer Studios cartoons. His comic book appearances would continue for decades until the title's end in 1984.

Popeye's huge popularity led him to be adapted into animation, which would only be loosely based on "Thimble Theatre" due to the limited length of the theatrical shorts at the time keeping them from making proper full-length adaptations of the "Thimble Theatre" sagas, which resulted in the shorts being episodic. The huge success of the first "Popeye the Sailor" cartoon (which originally started as a part of the Betty Boop shorts) would ensure a long-running series of independent theatrical shorts for the now famous sailor. In the various cartoons by Fleischer Studios, he would usually have to rescue his girlfriend Olive Oyl from Bluto, his rival and sometimes friend or go on a daring adventure with Olive and his good friend J. Wellington Wimpy. Some of the cartoons take a different recurring approach, like him rescuing Olive from another threat, dealing with something alone, fighting a small enemy he cannot beat, or watching over his adopted son Swee'Pea. As these theatrical shorts deviated from Segar's strips quite a bit, many characters from the comic never made an appearance or only appeared once (like Castor Oyl and the Goons). However, other characters like J. Wellington Wimpy (who sometimes served as Popeye's sidekick), Poopdeck Pappy and, more rarely, Oscar would make semi-regular appearances in the shorts. Eugene the Jeep also made some appearances but would not be used as often as the above. George W. Geezil also made only two appearances alongside Popeye. Many of these cartoons mostly focused on Popeye's adventures and antics along with Olive and occasionally Wimpy as they tried to resist the antagonistic Bluto. While not appearing as a sailor very often (as Popeye was usually portrayed with a number of odd jobs) the stories in the cartoons would involve his brawling escapades or his adventures in certain areas of the world while doing impressive feats and preserving Olive's safety and their relationship.

During the World War II-era animated shorts, Popeye was a member of the U.S. Navy and his outfit was changed to a white Navy suit, and he would continue to look like this in animation from the 1940s through to the 1960s. During Fleischer Studios's final years of operations, the shorts they produced were WWII stories focusing on Popeye's heroic attempts to help America fight the enemy, mostly the Japanese and Germans. The cartoons with these battle scenes have often been banned from television for being considered too "politically incorrect."

Also, in the 1940s shorts, Popeye gained four nephews named Pipeye, Peepeye, Poopeye and Pupeye, who originally debuted in an earlier short within a dream sequence as his children, before being made recurring and turned into his nephews. However, their exact relation to Popeye remains unclear, and the parent of his nephews has never been properly identified.

Following the takeover of the Popeye animated franchise by Paramount Studios in 1942, the Popeye cartoons were now handled by Famous Studios, which made drastic changes which abandoned almost all traces of "Thimble Theatre" and focused largely on plots involving Popeye, Olive, Bluto in something resembling a love triangle, without many other characters appearing and with very few shorts deviating from that setup, which involved Olive falling for Bluto and Popeye beating him after eating spinach in an oft-repeated formula. Also of note are Famous Studios' remakes of Fleischer cartoons (such as "Goonland", itself a loose "Thimble Theatre" adaptation), heavily changed by Famous to remove all traces of Segar creations outside of Popeye, Bluto and Olive, i.e. "Popeye's Pappy" replacing "Goonland"'s Goons with what might be considered racial caricatures of Africans led by a Bluto-like cannibal, with the only thing in common between the two versions being the rescue of Pappy - who would go on to make only two more appearances after this (one of which contradicted the established fact that he left his son shortly after his birth). Supporting characters who were notable friends of Popeye and even had several appearances in Fleischer cartoons, such as Wimpy, Pappy and Swee'Pea, were featured less than a handful of times: Wimpy only appeared in three shorts (aside from flashback-oriented stories) and others such as Eugene the Jeep never appeared at all. Popeye's role as an adventuring sailor was also reduced to a point where he was barely ever seen at sea or in the Navy other than in a few shorts mostly from the war period, as the majority of stories preferred to avoid doing more adventurous and fantastical stories and focus on Popeye's everyday life, his vacation hijinks or the "love triangle" setup.

Popeye's portrayal in the animated adaptation (such as the theatrical cartoons and especially the Famous outings) has alternately been criticized for giving him a single means to solve all of life's problems (unlike in the older strips), or praised for bringing children to eat healthy. This reliance was most exaggerated in the short "How Green Is My Spinach," which presented Popeye as being helpless without spinach (and portrayed other vegetables as ineffective), spoofing the cartoons's own formula but at the same time providing a rather questionable message.

In the fifties, Popeye's cartoon catalog was sold by the Paramount studio to Associated Artists Productions for broadcast on television. Animated shows were also made for television in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s.

In 1960, the first "Popeye the Sailor" animated television series was produced for first-run syndication which proved successful. Like the earlier theatrical cartoon series, it would use many elements that were already well known, mostly the basic storyline of Popeye trying to keep his sweetheart Olive safe from the hands of other male suitors while using spinach to remain fit and healthy. Unlike the theatrical shorts however (especially the Famous Studios shorts), this TV series made a more prominent attempt to bring back characters and elements from "Thimble Theatre" back to Popeye's side, such as his old friend J. Wellington Wimpy, who had been considerably absent during the Famous era, and the show even included characters who never had the chance to appear in animation, such as Popeye's old lucky charm Bernice the Whiffle Hen and even Alice the Goon, King Blozo and Rough House (yet while bringing in more "Thimble Theatre" elements, very few episodes were a direct or accurate adaptations of the strips and had no real continuity between them). Notably, the only character that failed to return was Bluto himself, who was instead replaced by his lookalike/brother Brutus, due to King Features incorrectly thinking that the former was not originally a "Thimble Theatre" character. While the show did involve Popeye's love life, episodes actually focused more on his adventuring around the world (and beyond) not unlike the Fleischer and comic strip incarnation, and also brought back other "Thimble Theatre" antagonists rather than relying solely on Brutus, like the sinister Sea Hag and Toar the caveman, who proved to be a true challenge for Popeye. As in the final Fleischer cartoons and most Famous shorts, Popeye still wore his Navy uniform, an exception being the pilot episode "Barbecue for Two", where he did wear his original outfit.

In 1978, Hanna-Barbera Productions, with King Features Syndicate, would produce a new "Popeye" television series, "The All-New Popeye Hour". Unlike the previous show, this series had higher-quality animation and was more akin to Segar's work and Fleischer cartoons than other Popeye animations, with Popeye more regularly seen as an adventurous sailor. Popeye's look was once again changed for this series, this time it was a permanent return to his classic outfit, however he still wore his Navy hat, making it something of a combination of both styles. The series also gave characters such as Alice the Goon more prominence, having her co-star with Olive in their own segment, "Private Olive Oyl". This show focused more on adventure than past animations: there were entirely new segments dedicated to sailing the seas and searching for adventure, as in "Popeye's Treasure Hunt". Popeye and the Sea Hag's relationship was also more accurate to the strips than the previous series, with the Hag wanting to marry Popeye, much to the latter's disgust. Oddly enough, Popeye's signature spinach can would have special effects on other characters, such as Olive and Swee'Pea, who would unusually turn into actual superheroes.

In 1980, a theatrical live-action movie called "Popeye" was released, featuring an original story written by Jules Pfeiffer, directed by Robert Altman, and serving as a more faithful adaptation to Segar's "Thimble Theatre." It brought almost every friend of Popeye's to the silver screen, although it showed the well-known sailor (as whom Robin McLaurin Williams starred) as having an initial aversion to spinach, and the setting took place in a port town called Sweethaven, created on the island of Malta by Altman's set decorators. It eventually went on to gross $49,823,037; more than double the film's production budget.

"Popeye" was produced as a musical, with original songs whose music was composed and whose lyrics were written by Harry Nilsson; however, Sammy Lerner's familiar theme for the character, "I'm Popeye the Sailor Man," was retained in the final sequence.

In 1987, the latest animated series focusing on Popeye was produced, entitled "Popeye and Son". The series was unique in the Popeye franchise for taking place later in Popeye's life, where he had finally married Olive Oyl, settled down and had a son of his own (a notable change considering the rarity of having well-known cartoon characters actually move on with their lives). The series shared similarities with its predecessor, "The All-New Popeye Hour", having various references to "Thimble Theatre" and other media in Popeye's history such as the theatrical film, with the cartoon taking place in Sweethaven. However, the series didn't prove as popular as its predecessors and was eventually cancelled after 13 episodes. Being the last animated Popeye series on television, it can be considered somewhat fitting that it ended at a later and happier point in Popeye's life.

In 2001, Popeye received a tribute show on Cartoon Network titled "The Popeye Show", which only featured classic shorts but also adding trivia info and facts about Popeye as well as occasionally showing unaltered original versions of the shorts, with the series going on to have 45 episodes.

In 2004, a CGI-animated TV movie titled "Popeye's Voyage: The Quest for Pappy" was produced by Mainframe Entertainment for Lions Gate Entertainment and King Features Entertainment. An attempt at a full-fledged animated theatrical film was also made by Sony Pictures Animation for release in 2012, with test animation made by Genndy Tartakovsky, yet production on this film has apparently remained on an indefinite hiatus.

In 2012, IDW Publishing began a brand-new Popeye comic book that primarily stays faithful to the character's original comic strip incarnation by E. C. Segar and Bud Sagendorf, and features countless throwbacks and references to Popeye's old adventures and even features the return of many (if not all) of the characters from the classic era. As the series is more faithful to Segar and Sagendorf's work, the plots of each issue follow more closely to the original format of the older comics rather than the cartoons, and the art even replicates Segar's style flawlessly. In 2013, IDW held a special crossover event where they depicted many of the settings in their comics as being invaded by the Martians from the 1962 trading card game and 1996 film "Mars Attacks", with Popeye facing off against the 1962 incarnation of the Martians in the special "Mars Attacks Popeye".

Popeye's unique and commonly used design is one that is immediately recognizable, being always depicted as a gruff-looking yet skinny sailor with a large cleft chin, a single eye, a mostly bald head and very large forearms with anchor tattoos, while his outfit normally consists of a black dress shirt with a red neckline and sleeves with blue edges along with blue pants, brown shoes and a sailor's cap. During his first introduction in "Thimble Theatre", Popeye's appearance was not too different from his current one, the only difference being that his nose was noticeably larger, his chin was slimmer and his forearms were less round and more angular (and also a bit hairy), but as Segar's talent continued to grow, the design would change to match the well known sailor seen today. This design would be his most iconic and most used depiction used in many media, and most notably the first piece of Popeye animated media by Fleischer Studios.

Following the attack of Pearl Harbor in 1941 by the Japanese which made the US take part in World War II, Popeye's design remained unchanged, however, in the cartoons he was now made a member of the U. S. Navy and given the appropriate naval attire, consisting of the standard white uniform with a black neckerchief, black shoes and a small Navy cap. He would continue to wear this outfit until the mid-1960s. During his Famous Studios run, Popeye's eyes were also slightly enlarged to look a bit more realistic rather than looking like black dots, and he was also portrayed as having two eyes in both Famous Studios and the 60s television series, which would occasionally be seen in several shorts.

When Bud Sagendorf began the Popeye comics in 1948, Popeye's design was changed to resemble his classic look but while still wearing his Navy cap from the war. His eyes were also changed back to their black dot appearance. His chin was also further enlarged with only a few minor changes due to Sagendorf's own unique art style. This design would continue to be used by Sagendorf's successors in Popeye comics, such as George Wildman, Bobby London and several others throughout the 70s, 80s and future newspaper comic strips depending on the artist, with Segar and Sagendorf's designs usually being interchanged. Sagendorf's design was also used in other 70s media and two cartoons, "The All-New Popeye Hour" and "Popeye and Son".

Since the end of "Popeye and Son," media and merchandise (outside the occasional comics) would continue to portray Popeye with his classic look or his Sagendorf design regularly, and only rarely using his Navy look.

Popeye's appearance is always the most difficult for cartoonists to duplicate because, as Sagendorf once pointed out, there is nothing normal about it. Sagendorf went on to admit that after approximately a year of attempting to do so as Segar's apprentice, he had to ask Segar to draw the character for him; he explained, "It turned out that if you didn't draw the eyebrows and eyes first, the nose second, the head third and the chin last, you were dead."

Popeye is a rough and tough sailor with a heart of gold who always does what he can for others and always doing what he thinks is best. He is brave and compassionate, as he will not back down against any foe and give them all he has got, but his compassionate nature makes it so he always tries to "defends the weakerist", as he cannot stand seeing the weak and helpless get abused. He also has a fondness for "poor dumb animals" and, similarly, cannot stand to see any animal being hurt for no reason. But he also has no patience for violent beasts who attack defenseless people or other animals for no justifiable reason, and he will be quick to turn them into mincemeat for their hotheadedness.

Being a sailor, he has a love for adventure and the sea, and will not pass up the chance to find new mysteries, lost treasures and grand adventures. While he is usually a treasure hunter of sorts, he is not greedy and always does his best to share with others and encourage others to do the same. Popeye has a dislike for things like monsters, ghosts and other such terrors, having faced several himself in his lifetime and would even pretend they do not exist, as seeing them terrifies him greatly, but he always manages to muster the courage to face off against any foe. Popeye's favorite food is spinach, and he always tries to encourage others to eat this healthy vegetable as it is a great source of "strength and vitality." He loves his sweetheart Olive Oyl dearly despite their rough start and will go to any lengths to keep her safe and make her happy, showing that he is a very chivalrous and romantic man, despite his rough, tough and gruff nature.

Popeye was born the son of Poopdeck Pappy and an unnamed woman in a typhoon in Santa Monica (with Popeye erroneously claiming to have been born at 2 or 3 years of age). Shortly after his birth, his father Poopdeck left home and was never seen again, and his mother's fate was unknown, leaving the young Popeye an "orphink" to be raised by an orphanage keeper who gave him the ID number of 185,764. As an infant, Popeye already had his signature pipe, presumably given to him by his father before leaving, and would only take it out of his mouth for his morning bottles of malted hardtack. As far as he could remember, little Popeye was impressed by early home training and exercised as soon as he was able, but avoided getting into serious fights until he was 4 years of age, where he had finally had enough of his orphanage keeper and let him have it. After this incident, it seemed as though Popeye's keeper became impressed with the child and decided to enter him in contests (similar to dog shows) where the young Popeye became a prize baby in many shows and always took great pride in his Bertillon measurements. Eventually, the orphan Popeye would fall on hard times upon leaving the orphanage, and was forced to wear flour sacks for clothes, but happily, the luckless lad was taken in by Whaler Joe at the docks, who even bought the young lad a new pipe and a fascinating straw hat with a radio antenna on it.

At six years of age, Popeye began to fulfill his promise of taking his exercising more seriously and started devoting himself to fights with the local bullies, easily laying his foes among the geranium flowerbeds, always promising to do so and never breaking his word. With Popeye around, the local bullies did not need the aid of any pliers or doorknobs to get rid of those useless bicuspids thanks to Popeye's left-right to the jaw. As Popeye's notoriety grew among the children, he inadvertently became a factor for good in discouraging his fellow rough-dock kids from crapshooting, doing so by being too good at the game himself, as he always got 18 straight passes when he rolled the dice. Despite his love of crapshooting, Popeye would be forced to sell his beloved dice for the lead in them after his guardian Whaler Joe fell on tough times. One day, Popeye set out on a boat with nothing but a bent pin and a spool of thread in hopes of helping his guardian by catching whales for him. Unfortunately, upon reaching the whale pod, Popeye realized he was grievously ill-prepared against the giant sea beasts who thrashed about his little vessel as they let out a loud horselaugh, which made Popeye respond with a quick tempered "Blow me down, you-!"—but before he could finish, the whales suddenly stopped. It was then that the largest whale, deeply offended, got on little Popeye's vessel and sprayed him with a mighty jet of water. This action infuriated the young Popeye so heavily that his anger became pure strength; he quickly got back on his feet and punched whale with all his might, instantly killing the proud alpha and proceeded to take on the rest of the pod. A triumphant little Popeye then returned home with a nice string of whales for Whaler Joe that night.

Upon reaching the age of 12, Popeye had startled everyone he knew by the sheer fact that he was now like a full-grown man, puberty having hit him hard as he now had to shave after every meal and he even had muscles so tough that they could be used as grindstones, with Popeye even renting out his forearms for just that purpose for some extra side cash. It was around this time that Popeye finally (but unknowingly) set out to sea, having been shanghaied onto a crew one night after some bilge rat put a mickey in his "sodie pop" to knock him out. After he woke, he found himself aboard the "Josie Lee" with a new crew bossing him around, so he decided to slip a "mickey" himself to everyone in the crew with his fists, including the captain. It was then that the "Josie Lee" began to drift out to sea and after a few days, Popeye realized that he liked this style of living and would go on to devote his life to that of the sailor's way, deciding to join the crew of the "Josie Lee" and begin practicing his "sailor's walk" from then on. Popeye then dedicated himself to sailing the seas, looking for fights and new adventure, as well as any clue to the whereabouts of his long-lost Pappy.

As the twelve-year old Popeye set off on his first voyage, he would end up losing the vision of his right eye in "the mos' arful battle" of his life. One fateful night, Popeye had just finished shooting craps with his five mates, who laid beaten on the deck of the "Josie Lee" with all their money on Popeye's side. It was then that the monstrous and bloodthirsty cook of the ship, an evil, beast-like man simply known as "The Ape," stepped forth, having had enough of Popeye's winning streak. Popeye knew a fight was inevitable and shouted out a "Blow me down!" before promising to lay the monster man "among the swee'peas" (the sweet pea flowerbed) as his resting place. However, the naive young boy (who always kept his promises no matter what) realized that there was not a single flowerbed of "swee'peas" in sight, with the exception of a bed of sunflowers on the ship. The flustered Popeye kept looking around the boat with his good peepers for any sign of a flowerbed to keep his word on, but before he knew it, "The Ape" pounced on the unsuspecting rookie sailor and a fierce onslaught ensued with The Ape showing no mercy and laying down a gruesome punishment on the sailor, with Popeye never being able to see another flowerbed with that one peeper of his again. From then on, those at sea would refer to Popeye as "Pop-Eye", after his popped eye.

Despite this gruesome defeat, Popeye did not weaken or falter and only became more dangerous from the experience, and he quickly recuperated and continued his service as a sailor on the "Josie Lee", continuing to make his regular nightly rounds, winding the anchor watch, always staying in front of the mast so he could say "Blow me down!" when the wind hit the sails and always keeping his fists tough while walloping his foes with only his left fist, for if he used his right fist, he would be unable to control his strength without obliterating his opponent due to not having his right eye to be in synch with his fist anymore. In those days, one had to be a brave or foolish mariner to incur Popeye's wrath.

It was around this time that the teenaged Popeye started embracing a chivalrous oath of gallantry, possibly due to the mature nature of his shipmates, with him often refusing to involve himself in the haughty and lewd conversations they had about fair maidens. His chivalry reached its peak one day when an albatross landed on the deck of the "Josie Lee". The hapless little bird was suddenly grasped by none other than the ship's cook, "The Ape", who hoped to make some "Off" out of the poor bird. Popeye then noticed that the small bird was wearing a pair of tiny lady's shoes, making him realize that this albatross was a lady bird, or "Albatress", as he called her. Popeye then wound up his fist and let "The Ape" have it with a mighty blow to the jaw (while also unintentionally getting a revenge of sorts). With the little female albatross now saved, Popeye apologetically bowed before the little bird and said "maybe you is somebody's sister, tha's a fack! Nobody but a criminal would do a hurt to anybody's sister!", and the little bird happily went on her way.

Around the age of 14, when ships were wood and men were iron, young Popeye became a member of the Sea Dog Club for sailors, where he would meet his good friend Bill Barnacle. The two would then join the crew of the "Mary Ann" for an unknown voyage. On a dark night, the "Mary Ann" began ringing in an ominous and unusual tone not unlike the sound of bones and skeletons moving when suddenly the moon became blood red. The two shocked sailors could only look on in horror as they saw numerous indescribable beasts clinging to the side of the "Mary Ann", led by a sinister being. The next morning, the duo and their skipper found five of the crew missing with no trace of them left behind. All that was known was that their frightening encounter aboard the "Ol' "Mary Ann"" would forever remind the duo of the all-true horrors that exist within the seas.

Later in life (at the presumed age of around 34 according to Bud Sagendorf), Popeye would offer his seafaring services at local ports; it was there he would eventually meet the ever-ambitious Castor Oyl and his sidekick Ham Gravy, who sought Popeye's services in order to travel to the gambling paradise of Dice Island and make it big using the luck-enhancing powers of their mysterious pet, Bernice the Whiffle Hen, and through them he would meet Castor's sister, Olive Oyl who at first was not too fond of the sailor and vice versa. Even her first words to him were harsh: ""Take your hooks offa me or I'll lay ya in a scupper"", and they fought bitterly---and hilariously---for months until finally realizing their feelings for each other. It was at this point that Olive left her womanizing fiancée Ham Gravy to be with the gruff sailor she loved. Since then, Popeye and Olive have remained almost inseparable and happily in love.

Since his debut in animation, Popeye has had many unique songs for himself as well as many tunes dedicated to him.


Astrophysics

Astrophysics is the study of how stars, planets, and other things in the Universe work, and how we can learn about them. Astrophysicists use physics to explain what astronomers find and see.

Astrophysics is also the study of how the Universe started and how it is changing with time. This part of astrophysics is called cosmology.

For a long time, bodies in the sky seemed to be unchanging spheres moving in a circle. But on Earth, growth and decay happened, and natural motion was in a straight line. Therefore, people thought the celestial region was made of a fundamentally different kind of matter from that found on Earth.

During the 16th and 17th centuries, natural philosophers such as Nicolaus Copernicus, Johannes Kepler, Galileo, Descartes, and Newton, began to maintain that the celestial and terrestrial regions were made of similar material and were subject to the same natural laws.

When they were able to work out how the planets moved, the science of astrophysics was born. Sir Isaac Newton realized that the same rules of mechanics that he had found on the surface of the Earth also could be used to predict how the planets moved. He said, "As above, so below". By this, he meant that we can study how things work on this planet to find out how things work in space.

Later scientists looked at the light from stars using spectroscopy. They were able to work out what they were made of, and how they changed with time.

There are two main types of astrophysics:


Cecilia Helena Payne (later Cecilia Payne-Gaposchkin) published her doctoral dissertation at Radcliffe College in 1925. She had discovered that hydrogen and helium were the main content of stars. More than that, the spectral classes relate to the temperature of stars. Despite Eddington's suggestion, her discovery was so unexpected that her dissertation readers told her to modify the conclusion before publication. Later research confirmed her discovery. <3


Word order

Word order is part of syntax, which is part of grammar. Word order may be different in different languages. For example, English "I play tennis only sometimes" would be in German "Ich spiele nur manchmal Tennis", literally "I play only sometimes tennis". In Norwegian, the same sentence would be "Jeg spiller bare tennis noen ganger" ("I play tennis only sometimes").

In Portuguese, the sentence could be "Eu só jogo tênis algumas vezes" ("I only play tennis sometimes), but word order can be changed to "Eu jogo tênis só algumas vezes" ("I play tennis only sometimes"). However, "Eu jogo só tênis algumas vezes" is not allowed ("I play only tennis sometimes") because the meaning would be changed.

In English, a simple sentence with a verb (an action), subject (who or what is doing the action), and an object (to whom or what the action is done) is written with a subject-verb-object word order (SVO). For example, in the sentence "Robert opens the door", "Robert" is the subject, "opens" is the verb and "door" is the object. SVO is the second-most common word order among all languages and is used in 42% of them. Examples are Mandarin Chinese, Bahasa Melayu, Bahasa Indonesia, Spanish, French, Italian, Thai and Vietnamese. While some of the above languages can use other word orders, such as SOV and VSO, they use SVO for the simplest sentences.

In other languages, sentences can use other word orders. Consider "Robert opens the door". In English, changing the word order to "The door opens Robert" would change the meaning of the sentence. In Latin, however, "Robertus ianuam aperit" and "ianuam Robertus aperit" mean the same. "Ianuam" is in the accusative case and so it is the direct object and "Robertus" the subject. Changing the cases of the words, however, to "Robertem ianua aperit" would change the meaning of the sentence: "ianua" is now in the nominative case and so it is the subject and "Robertum" the object.

The subject-object-verb (SOV) word order is the one that is used by the greatest number of distinct languages, 45% of them. It is especially common in the theoretical language family that is known as the Altaic language family, which includes many languages such as Japanese, Korean, Mongolian and the Turkic languages.

In Japanese, for example, a simple sentence uses SOV. In other words, the sentence "Robert opens the door" becomes "Robert the door opens". Such languages often use postpositions, which act like prepositions but appear after content words rather than before them, to show the role of a word in the sentence. The sample sentence "Robert opens the door" would be in Japanese ロバートはドアを開ける "Robāto-wa doa-o akeru" in which は "wa" as in ロバートは "Robāto-wa" shows that ロバート "Robāto (Robert)" is the topic of the sentence, and を "o" as in ドアを "doa-o" shows that ドア "doa" is the direct object of the sentence. Around 45% of all languages are SOV languages.

The verb-subject-object (VSO) word order is the third-most common word order in world languages. There are far fewer VSO languages than SVO and SOV languages, and only 9% of them are VSO. Language groups in which VSO is common include Afroasiatic languages, such as Arabic, Hebrew and Aramaic, and Celtic languages, such as Irish, Welsh and Cornish. In VSO languages, "Robert opens the door" would be "Opens Robert the door". Spanish sentences are usually SVO, but VSO is also common. In Spanish, the example above can be as "Roberto abre la puerta" (Robert opens the door) or "Abre Roberto la puerta" (Opens Robert the door).

Aside from SVO, SOV, and VSO, other kinds of word orders are rather uncommon. VOS word order makes up at around 3% of all languages, and languages that begin with the object (OVS and OSV) are extremely few, each around 1-0% percent each.

George H. W. Bush

George Herbert Walker Bush (June 12, 1924 – November 30, 2018) was an American politician, diplomat, businessman, and statesman. He was the 41st president of the United States from 1989 to 1993. Before becoming president, he was the 43rd vice president under Ronald Reagan from 1981 to 1989. He was a member of the Republican Party.

He is the father of George W. Bush, the 43rd president of the United States and Jeb Bush, the 43rd governor of Florida.

Bush was born in Milton, Massachusetts, and raised in Greenwich, Connecticut. He attended Phillips Academy before serving in the United States Navy Reserve during World War II. After the war, he graduated from Yale and moved to Texas, starting a successful oil company.

He entered politics in the 1960s, first running for the US Senate in 1964, but lost the election. In 1966, he ran for the House of Representatives and won. Five years later, in 1971, President Richard Nixon appointed Bush to become the Ambassador of the United Nations, then chairman of the Republican National Committee in 1973. In 1974, President Gerald Ford appointed him as Chief of the Liaison Office to the People's Republic of China, then in 1976 Bush became the Director of Central Intelligence. In 1980, Bush ran for president, but lost the nomination to Ronald Reagan. However, Reagan chose Bush to be his vice presidential running mate.

Eight years later, in 1988, Bush ran for president again, defeating Democrat Michael Dukakis. During his presidency, Bush led the United States through the end of the Cold War. He presided over the invasion of Panama and the Gulf War. He also signed the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, which did not allow discrimination to disabled people. Bush signed the North American Free Trade Agreement (also called NAFTA), which went into effect in 1994. He appointed David Souter and Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court. Although he promised not to raise taxes, he did so in order to help make the budget deficit smaller (when the government spends more money than it makes.) He ran for reelection in 1992, but lost to Democrat Bill Clinton.

After his presidency ended in 1993, Bush did activities that helped other people. He did this alongside Bill Clinton, his former rival. In 2000, his son, George W. Bush, was elected president of the United States. Another son, Jeb Bush, was elected governor of Florida in 1998. Jeb tried to run for president in 2016, but did not win the nomination.

On November 25, 2017, Bush became, at the time, the longest-lived U.S. president. He passed the 93 years and 165 days lifespan of Gerald Ford, who died on December 26, 2006. On November 30, 2018, Bush died at his home in Houston, Texas at the age of 94. Bush is ranked as an above-average president by historians.

Bush was born on June 12, 1924 in 173 Adam Street, Milton, Massachusetts. His father was politician Prescott Bush. He studied at Yale University. In June 1943, Bush became the youngest pilot in the United States Navy at the time.

Bush served in the United States Navy from 1942 until 1945. During WWII, his plane was shot down. He won the Air Medal, Presidential Unit Citation, and the Distinguished Flying Cross. He married Barbara Pierce in 1945. They had six children.

Bush worked for Zapata Oil in Texas and was a politician in Texas, running for the Senate in 1964, but losing to Ralph Yarborough and later again in 1970, though losing again to Lloyd Bentsen.

He was later a House Representative. He was also Republican Party Chairman and tried the vice presidency, with the support of such Congressional conservatives as Senator Barry Goldwater after Nixon resigned and Ford took office, but lost to liberal Republican Nelson Rockefeller in 1974. In 1980, Bush also ran against Ronald Reagan for the Republican Party's candidacy for president but lost. He was then named Republican vice presidential candidate by Reagan after Reagan defeated him. Reagan and Bush were elected president and Vice President that year.

During World War II, Bush was a crewman on a TBM Avenger. He had survived many crashes and sunk a Japanese ship. He later became a diplomat and head of the CIA.

After being Ronald Reagan's vice president, Bush was elected president in 1988 by defeating Michael Dukakis. 

Bush was sworn in as president on January 20, 1989, succeeding Reagan.

While he was president, the Cold War ended and the Soviet Union fell apart. He was known for his failed promise speech "".
In 1990, Bush's off-hand comments about broccoli caused a minor political controversy. In 1992, he visited Kiichi Miyazawa when he vomited on his lap and soon fainted during a dinner feast. Hours later, Bush made a comment that he was suffering from the flu.

When Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait in order to steal their supplies of oil, Bush led the United States and many other countries to protect Kuwait. The conflict was called the Gulf War. He also invaded Panama to remove Manuel Noreiga, who was guilty of drug trafficking.

At his home, Bush also signed in important laws, such as the Americans With Disabilities Act. However, the country suffered from a recession. This was embarrassing, and many people believe this was the reason he lost the presidential election of 1992 to Bill Clinton.

Bush left office on January 20, 1993 when Bill Clinton became president. Bush and his wife, Barbara, moved to Houston, Texas.

Bush resided on a ranch in Houston, Texas with his family. After his presidency, he supported John McCain and his son George W. Bush. He supported Mitt Romney and Rick Perry for president. He attended the opening of the USS "George H.W. Bush", a naval ship named after him. He traveled with his son to the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, China.

On February 15, 2011, Bush was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian honor in the United States, by President Barack Obama.

He was present at his son's presidential library opening ceremony on April 25, 2013. In July 2013, Bush had his head shaved in a show of support for the two-year-old son of a member of his security detail, who had leukemia. He is the most recent president that was a veteran during World War II.

Bush sent a letter to Donald Trump in January 2017 to inform him of his (Bush's) poor health that he would not be able to attend Trump's inauguration on January 20 and gave his best wishes.

He was the father of George W. Bush, Jeb Bush, and Dorothy Bush Koch. He had two other sons; his other daughter Robin died of leukemia in 1953; his father (also a politician) was Prescott Bush. On April 13, 2013, he became a great-grandfather when his granddaughter Jenna Bush Hager gave birth to a daughter.

Bush was an Episcopalian.

Bush suffered from a form of Parkinson's disease which forced him to use a motorized scooter or wheelchair to get around, since at least 2012.
On November 23, 2012, Bush had a bronchitis-like cough that initially brought him to Methodist Hospital in Houston for treatment. He was supposed to be released before Christmas, but was kept in and over the holiday because he got worse with a high fever. On December 23, 2012, he started to be in the intensive-care unit. On December 29, 2012, his health improved and moved out of intensive care. He was discharged in the hospital on January 14, 2013. On December 23, 2014, Bush was once again hospitalized at the Methodist Hospital after suffering a "shortness of breath". He was released from the hospital on December 30, 2014.

On July 15, 2015, Bush fell at his home in Kennebunkport, Maine and broke a vertebra in his neck.

On January 18, 2017, he was admitted to the intensive care unit at Houston Methodist Hospital, where he was sedated for a procedure to treat an acute respiratory problem stemming from pneumonia.

On April 22, 2018, after the burial of Bush's wife Barbara, he was hospitalized for sepsis and was placed under intensive care.

Bush died on November 30, 2018 at his home in Houston from Parkinson's-related complications, aged 94. A state funeral was held at the Washington National Cathedral.

Tributes and condolences were offered by former Presidents Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton, George W. Bush, and Barack Obama, and then-current President Donald Trump. He lied in state in the United States Capitol and was buried next to his wife at the George Bush Presidential Library.

Since Bush had the same first and last names as his son, he was often called George H. W. Bush or George Bush Sr. (George Bush senior). Some people call him "41" or "Bush 41" because he was the 41st President.

In 1990, President of the United States, George H. W. Bush, made a casual remark about broccoli (a vegetable), and said he would never eat it.

The President made this comment in 1990, shortly after a journalist from the U.S. News & World Report broke the story that Bush banned the vegetable from Air Force One. George S. Dunlop, President of the United Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Association, gave First Lady Barbara Bush a bouquet of the vegetable an additional 10 tons in trucks.

A few days afterwards, Bush hosted a state dinner to honor Tadeusz Mazowiecki, the Prime Minister of Poland, and journalists noted there was no broccoli on the menu, as most of the 10 tons of broccoli given to the President's family by the farmers had been donated to the Capital Area Food Bank.

White House biography

Ohio

Ohio (nicknamed The Buckeye State) is one of the 50 states in the United States. Its capital is Columbus, which is is also the largest city in Ohio.

Other large cities in Ohio are Cleveland, Cincinnati, Dayton, Akron, Toledo, and Youngstown.

Some famous people from Ohio include golfer , Wilbur and Orville Wright, astronauts John Glenn and Neil Armstrong, authors Sherwood Anderson and Toni Morrison, and actors Clark Gable and Katie Holmes. There have also been seven American presidents from Ohio: Ulysses S. Grant, Rutherford Hayes, James Garfield, Benjamin Harrison, William McKinley, William Howard Taft, and Warren G. Harding.

Ohio is important in elections because it is a swing state. Candidates often campaign a lot there and prior to 2020, the last time they voted for the losing candidate was 1960. Also, no Republican has ever won the presidency without carrying this state. Ohio has both farmland and cities, and there is a lot of discrimination against black people. It is part of the Midwest. Ohio is the 8th most populated state in the United States of America.

Ohio borders Pennsylvania, Michigan, Indiana, Kentucky, and West Virginia, and it shares a water border with Ontario, Canada. Western Ohio is mostly flat farmland, with some hills. Southern and Southeastern Ohio is near the Appalachian Mountains, and is the most mountainous part of the state. Most of this area is covered by forests. This part of Ohio is home to the Ohio River, the Wayne National Forest, and the Hocking Hills, which has waterfalls and canyons.

Central Ohio is mostly rolling hills, and is home to Columbus. Northeast Ohio is dominated by the Lake Erie coast and has a mix of cities and countryside.

For many years, industry and manufacturing was the biggest part of Ohio's economy. Youngstown was a big steel producer, as was Cleveland. Other manufacturing - including the car industry - was a major factor across the state. Since the 1970s, industry has shrank in Ohio, but it is still a big part of the local economy. Today, other businesses are more prominent. Cleveland is one of the biggest hubs for Healthcare, and its main hospital, the famous Cleveland Clinic, is the largest employer in the region. Banking is also a major business, and foods and retail are too. Cincinnati plays host to the headquarters of Fifth Third Bank, Cintas, Kroger, Luxottica, Procter & Gamble and Macy's, whereas, Columbus hosts the headquarters of LBrands, JPMorgan Chase, Huntington Bank, Rogue Fitness, Wendy's, Big Lots, Cardinal Health and Nationwide Insurance. In addition The J.M. Smucker Company and Key Bank are also based in Ohio.


Greek

Greek can mean:

Relativity

The word relativity usually means two things in physics:


Principle of relativity

In physics, the principle of relativity is the requirement that the equations describing the laws of physics are the same in all frames of reference.

In 300 BCE, Greek philosopher Aristotle thought that heavy objects fall faster than objects that are not heavy. The natural science of Aristotle was most popular in Western thought for 2,000 years.

In 1600, Italian astronomer Galileo Galilei proved that all objects fall with the same acceleration. Therefore, the longer an object moves with constant acceleration the faster its final velocity is. Also, if different objects each having a different mass are dropped from rest (initial velocity is zero) at the same height in a vacuum, they will all hit the ground at the same velocity regardless of their mass. The experimental discoveries of Galileo and the Laws of Motion developed mathematically by Newton gave birth to modern science.
Galileo's principle of relativity states "It is impossible by mechanical means to say whether we are moving or staying at rest". If two trains are moving at the same speed in the same direction, then a passenger in either train will not be able to notice that either train is moving. However, if the passenger takes a fixed frame of reference, a fixed point, like the earth, he will then be able to notice the motion of either train. Another thing, if one stands on the earth one will not be able to see that it is moving.

This principle is just taken from observation. For example, if we are travelling by airplane at a constant speed, we can walk through the inside of the airplane without noticing anything special.

From a practical point of view, this means that Newton's laws of motion are valid in all inertial systems, which means those at rest or those moving with constant speed relative to one considered at rest. This is the law of inertia: a body at rest continues at rest and a body in motion continues in motion in a straight line unless influenced by an external force. A Galilean coordinate system is one where the law of inertia is valid. The laws of mechanics of Galileo and Newton are valid in a Galilean coordinate system. If K is a Galilean coordinate system, then every other system K' is a Galilean coordinate system if it lies at rest or moves according to the law of inertia relative to K. Relative to K', the mechanical laws of Galileo and Newton are as valid as they are relative to K.

In other words, if a mass m is at rest or is moving with constant acceleration (the constant acceleration could be equal to zero in which case the velocity would remain constant) in a straight line relative to a Galilean coordinate system K, then it will also be at rest or moving with constant acceleration in a straight line relative to a second coordinate system K' provided the law of inertia is valid in system K' (in other words, provided it is a Galilean coordinate system).

Therefore, if we want to observe an effect in a moving system at constant speed, we can apply the Newton laws directly. If the moving system speeds up (or we speed up relative to it, like looking at the stars from the earth) then we will have to introduce imaginary forces to compensate this effect.

These fictitious forces are called centrifugal force and coriolis force.

Newton's Laws of Motion are mechanically accurate for speeds that are slow compared with the velocity of light. For speeds that approach the speed of light, it is necessary to apply the discoveries of Einstein's Special Theory of Relativity.

In order to describe what happens mechanically in the universe, physicists use mass, length and time. In the physics of Galileo and Newton, these quantities remain the same throughout the universe.

With Einstein's Special Theory of Relativity, these quantities can change.


Special relativity

Special relativity (or the special theory of relativity) is a theory in physics that was developed and explained by Albert Einstein in 1905. It applies to all physical phenomena, so long as gravitation is not significant. Special relativity applies to Minkowski space, or "flat spacetime" (phenomena which are not influenced by gravitation).

Einstein knew that some weaknesses had been discovered in older physics. For example, older physics thought light moved in luminiferous aether. Various tiny effects were expected if this theory were true. Gradually it seemed these predictions were not going to work out.

Eventually, Einstein (1905) drew the conclusion that the concepts of space and time needed a fundamental revision. The result was special relativity theory, which brought together a new principle "the constancy of the speed of light" and the previously established "principle of relativity". 

Galileo had already established the principle of relativity, which said that physical events must look the same to all observers, and no observer has the "right" way to look at the things studied by physics. For example, the Earth is moving very fast around the Sun, but we do not notice it because we are moving with the Earth at the same speed; therefore, from our point of view, the Earth is at rest. However, Galileo's math could not explain some things, such as the speed of light. According to him, the measured speed of light should be different for different speeds of the observer in comparison with its source. However, the Michelson-Morley experiment showed that this is not true, at least not for all cases. Einstein's theory of special relativity explained this among other things.

Suppose that you are moving toward something that is moving toward you. If you measure its speed, it will seem to be moving faster than if you were not moving. Now suppose you are moving away from something that is moving toward you. If you measure its speed again, it will seem to be moving more slowly. This is the idea of "relative speed"—the speed of the object relative to you.

Before Albert Einstein, scientists were trying to measure the "relative speed" of light. They were doing this by measuring the speed of star light reaching the Earth. They expected that if the Earth was moving toward a star, the light from that star should seem faster than if the Earth was moving away from that star. However, they noticed that no matter who performed the experiments, where the experiments were performed, or what star light was used, the measured speed of light in a vacuum was always the same.

Einstein said this happens because there is something unexpected about length and duration, or how long something lasts. He thought that as Earth moves through space, all measurable durations change very slightly. Any clock used to measure a duration will be wrong by exactly the right amount so that the speed of light remains the same. Imagining a "light clock" allows us to better understand this remarkable fact for the case of a single light wave.

Also, Einstein said that as Earth moves through space, all measurable lengths change (ever so slightly). Any device measuring length will give a length off by exactly the right amount so that the speed of light remains the same.

The most difficult thing to understand is that events that appear to be simultaneous in one frame may not be simultaneous in another. This has many effects that are not easy to perceive or understand. Since the length of an object is the distance from head to tail at one simultaneous moment, it follows that if two observers disagree about what events are simultaneous then this will affect (sometimes dramatically) their measurements of the length of objects. Furthermore, if a line of clocks appear synchronized to a stationary observer and appear to be out of sync to that same observer after accelerating to a certain velocity then it follows that during the acceleration the clocks ran at different speeds. Some may even run backwards. This line of reasoning leads to general relativity.

Other scientists before Einstein had written about light seeming to go the same speed no matter how it was observed. What made Einstein's theory so revolutionary is that it considers the measurement of the speed of light to be constant by definition, in other words it is a law of nature. This has the remarkable implications that speed-related measurements, length and duration, change in order to accommodate this.

The mathematical bases of special relativity are the Lorentz transformations, which mathematically describe the views of space and time for two observers who are moving relative to each other but are not experiencing acceleration.

Let there be an observer K who describes when events occur with a time coordinate "t", and who describes where events occur with spatial coordinates "x", "y", and "z". 
This is mathematically defining the first observer whose "point of view" will be our first reference.

Let us specify that the time of an event is given: by the time that it is observed "t" (say today, at 12 o'clock) minus the time that it took for the observation to reach the observer.

Now with these definitions in place, let there be another observer K' who is
where "x"' axis is coincident with the "x" axis, 
and with the "y' "and "z' "axes - "always being parallel" to the "y" and "z" axes.

This means that when K' gives a location like (3,1,2), the x (which is 3 in this example) is the same place that K, the first observer would be talking about, but the 1 on the y axis or the 2 on the z axis are only "parallel" to some location on the K' observer's coordinate system,
and

The Lorentz Transformations then are <br>

Define an event to have spacetime coordinates in system "S" and in a reference frame moving at a velocity v with respect to that frame, "S"′. Then the Lorentz transformation specifies that these coordinates are related in the following way:
is the Lorentz factor and "c" is the speed of light in vacuum, and the velocity "v" of "S"′ is parallel to the "x"-axis. For simplicity, the "y" and "z" coordinates are unaffected; only the "x" and "t" coordinates are transformed. These Lorentz transformations form a one-parameter group of linear mappings, that parameter being called rapidity.

Solving the above four transformation equations for the unprimed coordinates yields the inverse Lorentz transformation:

Enforcing this "inverse" Lorentz transformation to coincide with the Lorentz transformation from the primed to the unprimed system, shows the unprimed frame as moving with the velocity "v′" = −"v", as measured in the primed frame.

There is nothing special about the "x"-axis. The transformation can apply to the "y"- or "z"-axis, or indeed in any direction, which can be done by directions parallel to the motion (which are warped by the "γ" factor) and perpendicular; see the article Lorentz transformation for details.

A quantity invariant under Lorentz transformations is known as a Lorentz scalar.

Writing the Lorentz transformation and its inverse in terms of coordinate differences, where one event has coordinates and , another event has coordinates and , and the differences are defined as

we get

If we take differentials instead of taking differences, we get

In special relativity, the momentum formula_17 and the total energy formula_18 of an object as a function of its mass formula_19 are
and

A frequently made error (also in some books) is to rewrite this equation using a "relativistic mass" (in the direction of motion) of formula_22.
The reason why this is incorrect is that light, for example, has no mass, but has energy. If we use this formula, the photon (particle of light) has a mass, which is according to experiments incorrect.

In special relativity, an object's mass, total energy and momentum are related by the equation
For an object at rest, formula_24 so the above equation simplifies to formula_25. Hence, a massive object at rest still has energy. We call this rest energy and denote it by formula_26:

The need for special relativity arose from Maxwell's equations of electromagnetism, which were published in 1865. It was later found that they call for electromagnetic waves (such as light) to move at a constant speed (i.e., the speed of light).

To have James Clerk Maxwell's equations be consistent with both astronomical observations and Newtonian physics, Maxwell proposed in 1877 that light travels through an ether which is everywhere in the universe.

In 1887, the famous Michelson-Morley experiment tried to detect the "ether wind" generated by the movement of the Earth. The persistent null results of this experiment puzzled physicists, and called the ether theory into question.

In 1895, Lorentz and Fitzgerald noted that the null result of the Michelson-Morley experiment could be explained by the ether wind contracting the experiment in the direction of motion of the ether. This effect is called the Lorentz contraction, and (without ether) is a consequence of special relativity.

In 1899, Lorentz first published the Lorentz equations. Although this was not the first time they had been published, this was the first time that they were used as an explanation of the Michelson-Morley's null result, since the Lorentz contraction is a result of them.

In 1900, Poincaré gave a famous speech in which he considered the possibility that some "new physics" was needed to explain the Michelson-Morley experiment.

In 1904, Lorentz showed that electrical and magnetic fields can be modified into each other through the Lorentz transformations.

In 1905, Einstein published his article introducing special relativity, ""On the Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies"", in "Annalen der Physik". In this article, he presented the postulates of relativity, derived the Lorentz transformations from them, and (unaware of Lorentz's 1904 article) also showed how the Lorentz Transformations affect electric and magnetic fields.

Later in 1905, Einstein published another article presenting "E" = "mc".

In 1908, Max Planck endorsed Einstein's theory and named it "relativity". In that same year, Hermann Minkowski gave a famous speech on "Space and Time" in which he showed that relativity is self-consistent and further developed the theory. These events forced the physics community to take relativity seriously. Relativity came to be more and more accepted after that.

In 1912, Einstein and Lorentz were nominated for the Nobel prize in physics due to their pioneering work on relativity. Unfortunately, relativity was so controversial then, and remained controversial for such a long time that a Nobel prize was never awarded for it.






