Boroughs of Berlin


The German capital Berlin is subdivided into 12 boroughs (German: "Stadtteile"/ "Bezirke"). The boroughs are called "Bezirke" in German. The 12 boroughs have political rights like a town community but they are not a legal city.

On January 1, 2001 there was a Berlin borough reform. The reform cut the number of Berlin's boroughs from 23 to 12. This was the result of combining several of the old boroughs. The reform was done in order to cut down administration costs.

Here are the old and the new boroughs:

"(the data in the table is March 2004)"

Superhuman

Superhuman means something that is beyond what people are naturally able to do. It is a word most used in fiction such as superhero comic books, but also sometimes in science fiction and fantasy movies and books.

Any character in books or movies that is much stronger than any real person, or can do things such as fly like Superman, is said to be superhuman or to have superhuman powers.

The word "superhuman" may also mean something that is not human but can do something that humans cannot, like a robot that can think faster than a person can.
Some examples of these are having incredible memory, not needing sleep, being able to run for hours or being able to smell colours.

Real Madrid CF

Real Madrid Club de Fútbol, sometimes known as Real Madrid, is a Spanish football club from Madrid, Spain. It was started in 1902 and competes in La Liga (the Spanish top league). The "Real" in the club's name is Spanish for "royal", because it was blessed by the King of Spain in 1920.

Real Madrid has won La Liga 34 times and the Copa del Rey (King's Cup) 19 times, the most out of any team in the league. It has also won the UEFA Champions League a record 14 times and the UEFA Cup twice.

Real Madrid was recognised as the FIFA Club of the 20th Century on 11 December 2000, and received the FIFA Centennial Order of Merit on 20 May 2004. In June 2017, the team succeeded in becoming the first club to win the Champions League twice in a row. In 2018, Madrid made history by becoming the first club in recent history to win the Champions League three times in a row. They beat Liverpool F.C. 3–1 in the final.

Since it began, Real Madrid has since spent all of its history in La Liga, and has never been relegated down to a lower level. This shows how strong they have been just to stay in the top flight of Spanish football. In the 1940s, the club, the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium and the Ciudad Deportiva were rebuilt after the Spanish Civil War. The club became a major force in both Spanish and European football during the 1950s. In the 1980s, the club had one of the best teams in Spain and Europe (known as "La Quinta del Buitre"). They had won two UEFA Cups, five Spanish championships in a row, one Spanish cup and three Spanish Super Cups.

The club has bought many footballers, including David Beckham, Zinedine Zidane, Michael Owen, and Kaká. The most expensive player is Gareth Bale who was bought for 85.3 million pounds from Tottenham Hotspur of the English Premier League.

The club's traditional home colours are all white. Its crest has been changed several times in attempts to modernise or re-brand. The current crest is a modified version of the one first adopted in the 1920s. Real's home stadium is the 81,044 capacity Santiago Bernabéu Stadium in Madrid, where it has played since 1947. Unlike most European football clubs, Real Madrid's members ("socios") have owned and operated the club since it was opened. Real is the world's most valuable club. Real Madrid has won 34 La Liga titles.

There is a strong rivalry between the two strongest teams in La Liga, which are Real Madrid and FC Barcelona, where the game between them is known as ""El Clásico"" ("The Classic").

The club's nearest neighboring club is Atlético Madrid, and matches between them are known as "Madrid Derby". A strong rivalry is shared between fans of both teams.

As of February 14 2024


Contracts

1874

1874 was a common year.


Bigfoot

Bigfoot, also called Sasquatch is a creature in folklore. People say that they are primates living in remote areas of Canada and the United States, most commonly in the Pacific Northwest. Even though many people claim to have seen a Bigfoot, or seen their tracks, no one has ever captured one, or found a dead body. So, most people do not believe in Bigfoot. Bigfoot is said to be very tall, from 7 to 9 feet (about 2 to 2.75 meters) and covered in brown, black, red, or sometimes even white fur or hair. They are said to have very big feet, about 13 inches long (0.3 meters), which is why they are named Bigfoot.

Bigfoot is similar to another mythical creature, the Yeti of the Himalayas.

The name Sasquatch comes from the Halkomelem language, a Central Salish language in the Salish language family. Stories of this type of creature are known among a number of First Nations groups in south-western British Columbia.

The Da Vinci Code

The Da Vinci Code is a 2003 book by Dan Brown. 
The book talks about a religious group called Opus Dei, a famous artist named Leonardo da Vinci, and some famous paintings he made called the Mona Lisa and The Last Supper.

According to Sharan Newman in "The Real History behind the Da Vinci Code", Dan Brown based "The Da Vinci Code" on a book called "Holy Blood, Holy Grail" by Baigent and Leigh. This book was based on some papers found in the National Library of France, and which were forgeries. The papers were written to show that the man who wrote them was really the true king of France and head of an ancient secret society.

In 2006, Columbia Pictures made a movie version. It was directed by Ron Howard and stars Tom Hanks as Robert Langdon.

1959

1959 (MCMLIX) was .









