N.C. Wyeth


Newell Convers Wyeth (October 22, 1882 – October 19, 1945) was an American painter and book illustrator. He was born in Needham, Massachusetts. He was known for his illustrations for such books as "Robin Hood", "Robinson Crusoe", "The Yearling", "The Last of the Mohicans", and King Arthur. His daughters Henriette and Carolyn, his son, Andrew and grandson Jamie Wyeth were also painters. Wyeth's son Nathaniel was an inventor. 

Wyeth was born in Needham, Massachusetts. He died in an accident at a railway crossing in Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania.


Turkey (bird)

Turkeys are birds in the genus Meleagris. They are like a chicken but much bigger. Wild turkeys live in forests in North America and Central America. In the United States, people traditionally eat turkey on the holiday of Thanksgiving.

This genus has two species:

When people from Europe first saw turkeys in the Americas they thought the birds were a type of guinea fowl ("Numida meleagris"). This bird had been brought to central Europe from the country of Turkey. The name of that country stuck as the name of the bird. 

The confusion with the name is also seen in the scientific name: "meleagris" is Greek for guinea-fowl.

Arachnology

Arachnology is a science that studies arachnids. Examples of arachnids are spiders, scorpions, pseudoscorpions, and harvestmen. Ticks and mites are also arachnids but they sometimes are not included in arachnology. They are studied in acarology.

Alabama

Alabama () is a state in the United States. Its capital city is Montgomery. The largest city is Birmingham. It became a state in 1819. Native American tribes such as Cherokee, Chickasaw, Choctaw, and Creek first lived in Alabama. 

The top countries of origin for immigrants were Mexico (27 percent of immigrants), China (6 percent), India (6 percent), Guatemala (5 percent), and Germany (5 percent).

Alabama is the thirty-first largest state in the United States with of total area. 3.18% of the area is water, making Alabama twenty-third in the amount of surface water, also giving it the second-largest inland waterway system in the United States. About three-fifths of the land area is a plain with a general downward slope towards the Mississippi River and the Gulf of Mexico. North Alabama has mostly mountains, with the Tennessee River cutting a large valley creating many creeks, streams, rivers, mountains, and lakes.

The states bordering Alabama are Tennessee to the north; Georgia to the east; Florida to the south; and Mississippi to the west. Alabama has a coastline at the Gulf of Mexico, at the very southern edge of the state. Alabama ranges in height from sea level at Mobile Bay to over in the Appalachian Mountains in the northeast. The highest point is Mount Cheaha, at a height of . Alabama's land has of forest or 67% of the total land area. Baldwin County is the largest county in the state in both land area and water area.
The state is classified as subtropical Cfa under the Köppen climate classification. The normal yearly temperature is . Temperatures are often warmer in the southern part of the state because it is closer to the Gulf of Mexico, while the northern parts of the state, mostly in the Appalachian Mountains in the northeast, tend to be slightly cooler. Most of the time, Alabama has very hot summers and mild winters with lots of rain throughout the year. Alabama receives an average of of rainfall annually and enjoys a lengthy growing season of up to 300 days in the southern part of the state.

Summers in Alabama are among the hottest in the United States, with high temperatures averaging over throughout the summer in some parts of the state. Alabama also gets many tropical storms and rarely hurricanes. Areas of the state far away from the Gulf of Mexico can still feel the effects of the storms, which often dump big amounts of rain as they move inland and weaken.

The number of people who live in Alabama was 5,024,279 on April 1, 2020, This is 244,543 more people living in the state than in 2010. This includes the migration of 104,991 people into the state.

According to the United States Bureau of Economic Analysis, the 2008 total gross state product was $170 billion, or $29,411 per capita. Alabama's 2008 GDP increased (went up) 0.7% from the past year. The single largest increase came in the area of information. In 1999, the per capita income for the state was $18,189.

Alabama's agricultural outputs are poultry and eggs, cattle, plant nursery items, peanuts, cotton, grains (such as corn and sorghum), vegetables, milk, soybeans, and peaches. Although known as "The Cotton State", many reports say that Alabama is between eight and ten in national cotton making, with Texas, Georgia, and Mississippi making up the top three.

Alabama's company outputs are iron and steel products (like cast-iron and steel pipe); paper, lumber, and wood items; mining (mostly coal); plastic things; cars and trucks; and apparel. Alabama also makes aerospace and electronic products, mostly in the Huntsville area. Huntsville also has the Redstone Arsenal.

Public primary and secondary education in Alabama is under the review of the Alabama State Board of Education as well as local oversight by 67 county school boards and 60 city boards of education. Together, 1,479 schools have education for 743,012 elementary and secondary students.
Alabama's programs of higher education are 14 four-year public universities, two-year community colleges, and 17 private, undergraduate and graduate universities. In the state are two medical schools, University of Alabama at Birmingham and University of South Alabama, two veterinary colleges, Auburn University and Tuskegee University, a dental school, University of Alabama, an optometry college, two pharmacy schools, Auburn University and Samford University, and several law schools, Birmingham School of Law, Cumberland School of Law, Miles Law School, and the Thomas Goode Jones School of Law. Public, post-secondary education in Alabama is overseen by the Alabama Commission on Higher Education. Colleges and universities in Alabama offer degree programs from two-year associate degrees to 16 doctor level programs.

The Governor of Alabama is Kay Ivey. The Lieutenant Governor is Will Ainsworth. The Chief Justice of the Alabama Supreme Court is Tom Parker, Both the Governor and Lieutenant Governor are members of the Republican Party.



