Vampire


A vampire is a ghost in legends and stories. The first vampire stories were told in Eastern Europe, but much of how modern people see vampires was created by Bram Stoker in the famous novel, "Dracula". Few people believe that vampires are real, but they are still very popular in movies, television, and books.

Vampires were once people but have a supernatural curse. Some vampires must drink blood to survive. They do this by biting people or animals on the neck with their two long fangs. People who are killed by having their blood drunk by vampires may also become vampires. Others can live off the life energy of people. In many stories, vampires can change into other animals, usually bats, though also wolves, cats or rats.

Depending on the story, vampires may have some or all of these characteristics:

Dracula is the most famous vampire in fiction, and many movies have been made about him, many with Christopher Lee as Dracula. Bela Lugosi is another actor known for the role. "Nosferatu" is also a famous vampire movie.

There is a popular series of books by Anne Rice about vampires. Stephen King also wrote about vampires in the 1970s in "Salem's Lot". The television show "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" featured a young girl who fought vampires, but also befriended good ones. The series "Twilight" by Stephenie Meyer is also about vampires. The movie "The Lost Boys" was about a band of vampires in California. Among many other stories about vampires are "The Southern Vampire Mysteries", which led to the television show "True Blood".

In stories, garlic is often used for keeping vampires away, but it does not actually affect them. Vervain is used to hurt vampires, and in Europe, Though this is not traditional, mirrors have been used to make vampires stay away (in some cultures, vampires do not have a reflection and sometimes do not have a shadow, perhaps as a way of showing that they do not have souls). Not all vampires in stories have this quality (the Greek "vrykolakas/tympanios" had both reflections and shadows), was used by Bram Stoker in "Dracula". In addition to this, in Bram Stoker's "Dracula", it is mentioned that wolf's-bane (or Aconitum) can be used to repel dracula. The reason for this in the novel it is explained dracula is the Wolfman, and can transform into one just as easily as a bat.

Some neurologists believe that rabies might lie at the base of the myth.
The problem with this is that rabid people, especially in advanced stages of the disease, will live for about ten days, at best. This does not account for them getting out of ditches and graves over weeks or months.

Another explanation was given by other people. The disease might be porphyria, rather than rabies. Porphyria is a genetic condition that leads to differences when the body makes blood. Some parts of the blood can not be made in sufficient quantities. Writers for the Toronto Garlic Festival say people with porphyria do not like to eat foods that have sulfur in them, and garlic has sulfur in it. 

Psychological disorders can contribute to vampiric behavior. As well as the fact that drinking blood has always been believed to give you the strength of the one you drink from. That belief stems all the way back to ancient civilizations.

There are people in the real world who like to dress and behave like a vampire. Some of them may also drink blood.

Finally, there is the vampire bat.

Degree

Degree generally means to have a level in something.

Degree can mean:

Academic degree

An academic degree is a certification students get when they graduate from a university. It shows they successfully completed their classes, and passed a final examination.

It is an official credential. The length of courses, and the number of courses vary depending on which university is attended. In the United States, high schools give out diplomas to graduating students. These are not degrees.

There are hundreds of different academic degrees, but they are often grouped into a few categories:

All other degrees are known as "higher degrees".

Some countries reward a licentiate degree which gives the degree holder the permission (licence) to teach and practice in the area concerned. Its level varies according to the country, mostly at bachelor's level or above.

In medicine, membership of specialist societies are also degrees, and Fellowships are higher degrees. Examples: MRCP = Member of the Royal College of Physicians. These degrees require postgraduate training and practical experience.

The university courses needed for a master's degree, or for a doctorate, are often highly advanced, difficult subjects, and they would be extremely difficult to understand unless a person had already attended the undergraduate courses. The reason the upper-level courses are so difficult, so hard to understand, is that they assume the person already knows, perhaps, 1,000 technical terms learned in earlier college courses. This is similar to having to know the Latin names of all 206 bones in the human body, as just part of those technical terms.

In many countries these degrees are shown by letters which the person is allowed to put after their name, e.g. John Smith, BA. A bachelor's degree is usually the degree received at the end of a first degree. While the student is studying for a degree he or she is an "undergraduate". When he graduates he is a "graduate". He may continue with his studies and receive a master's degree or do some original work and write a thesis to get a doctor's degree (which does not mean a Doctor of Medicine).

In the United States and Canada, college degrees are either Undergraduate or Graduate level.

An "undergraduate" degree is for all students who do not have a bachelor's degree. It requires four years of study including General Education, Electives, and Major courses that prepare students to work in their specialized program. The undergraduate degrees are as follows:

A "graduate" degree requires the person to already have a bachelor's degree. It includes:

A "professional degree" is also a graduate degree and requires the person already have a bachelor's degree. It is required by law to be licensed to work in a particular profession. It includes:


High school

High school is a kind of school, a place where people go to learn skills for use in life. In a three-part system such as in the United States, children go to high school after middle school ("junior high"). In a two-part system such as in the United Kingdom, the change is from primary school to secondary school at 11 years of age. 

In the United States, a high school is a school that students go to usually for grades 9 through 12, from the ages of about 14-15 to about 17-18. It is also the last school that the law requires the student to go to. However, students with behavioral issues that are too much for the school to handle cannot attend. This is called expulsion. Some states have an age or certain grade where a student does not have to attend school, this is called the compulsory age, for example in New York, students below 17 years of age are required to attend school unless the child is excused. Some people may choose to take some tests called GED (General Education Development) as another way to finish high school. A student is allowed by law to stop going to high school after a certain age without having graduated. In most this is 16, however, in a few states, it is 18 or higher, for example, Wisconsin.

In the United Kingdom, the law requires the student to go to school until 18. The term 'high school' is only used in Scotland.
The term 'secondary School' is used for most of the UK instead of 'high school'.
'Secondary school' is the school year between 7-11; which are pupils aged 11-16.

There are public high schools and private high schools in the United States and many other countries.

Public school

A public school means different things in different countries:

In the United States and Canada, public schools are schools that are paid for by the government. They are open to all students who live nearby without any charge. They are usually paid for through property taxes that are applied to everyone who owns buildings in the area around the school.

Public schools greatly expanded in the United States in the 19th century. Every U.S. state now has free public schools.

Some people think that public schools have done a bad job of education in the United States. One solution has been to give "vouchers" to parents that help them send their children to private schools. Critics say this takes money away that could go to improving public schools.

See British public school, where the meaning is different. 

Seoul

Seoul () is the biggest city of the Republic of Korea (South Korea), and its capital. Its official name is Seoul Special City ( "Seoul Teukbyeolsi"). It has a population of 10 million which is about 1/5 of the Korean population and 1/7 of Korea peninsula, and covers an area of 610 km² that is only 0.6% of South Korea. It is the 6th most populated city in the world, and 7th most crowded. Seoul is the center of politics, economy, culture, transportation, and education for South Korea.

Seoul is in the middle of the Korean Peninsula. Han River (한강 "Han-gang") is a major river in South Korea and the fourth longest river on the Korean peninsula. This river goes across Central Seoul.

Seoul hosted the 1986 Asian Games and the 1988 Olympic Games. 

Seoul is thought to be the capital of Baekje Kingdom (백제) from 18 BC. At that time, the name of the city was Wiryeseong (). Wiryeseong is thought to be Songpa-gu, Seoul. During the Silla Period (신라시대), Hanju (한주) was name of Seoul. During Goryeo Period (고려시대), the name of Seoul was Namgyeong (남경) which means "the south capital". There was a palace of Goryeo Dynasty. Hanyang was name of Seoul in late Goryeo Period. After establishment of Joseon Dynasty, the name of Seoul was Hanseong (한성) and Hanseong became the capital of Joseon Kingdom. From 1910 to 1945 when Korea was under Japanese rule, the name of Seoul was Gyeongseong (경성). Since South Korea was started in 1948, it has been the capital, except for a short time during the Korean War. Seoul became a special city in 1949. The April 19th Revolution (4.19혁명) and June Democratic Struggle (6월 민주항쟁) happened in Seoul.

The most famous soccer team in Seoul is FC Seoul. Their stadium is Sang-am World cup Stadium. It can seat 66,806 people.

Seoul has three famous baseball teams that all play as part of the Korea Baseball Organization. One is The Doosan Bears and they have many famous players. The LG Twins won the Korean Series in 1990 and 1994. Both of these teams play at Jamsil Stadium. Lastly The Nexen heroes who use Mokdong stadium .
Seoul has many stadiums such as Olympic stadium, Jamsil Stadium, Sang-am World Cup Stadium, and Mokdong Stadium. Olympic Stadium was built in 1988 for the Olympics. It was used for the opening and closing ceremonies. World Cup stadium was used for several games in the 2002 FIFA World Cup.

Seoul has been known in past by the names Wirye-seong (위례성), Hanju (한주), Namgyeong (남영), Hanseong (한성), Hanyang (한양), Gyeongseong (경성). It’s current name comes from the Korean word meaning “capital city.” The name Seoul is thought to come from the Seorabeol (서라벌) which is Gyeongju’s old name. Gyeongju was the kingdom Silla’s capital city. 
There are many universities in Seoul. Seoul National University, Yonsei University, Korea University, Sungkyunkwan University, Chungang University are in Seoul too. Seoul National University is Korea’s first national university. Yonsei University is widely acknowledged as one of the country’s oldest, largest and top-ranked universities in Korea.

Seoul’s transportation dates back to the Korean empire, when the first streetcar lines were laid and a railroad between Seoul and Incheon was completed. Today, because of the effectiveness of Seoul’s transportation network it has become a great transportation center for Asia.







