Eyeglasses


Eyeglasses (U.S), glasses or spectacles (also more rarely cheaters) are pieces of glass or clear plastic, called lenses, that are held in front of a person's eyes by a frame made of metal or plastic. They can be used for many reasons. These include safety, fashion and to correct a person's vision. The earliest known eyeglasses are in the thirteenth century in Italy.

"Corrective" lenses let some people see or read better if they have problems seeing. If the someone is long-sighted (the light is focusses past the retina), they use a different type of glasses than someone who is short-sighted. Lenses can also correct Astigmatism. Contact lenses also help people see better. Corrective lenses usually are made by opticians following eyeglass prescription from an optometrist. It's also possible to get adjustable focus glasses where one can change the lens power.

R"eading glasses that are sold over the counter" may help those with presbyopia who only need to wear glasses occasionally. They typically come in lens powers from +0.25 to +4. 

3d glasses are used during 3d movies.

Glasses can also protect the eyes. Goggles and safety glasses are strong and protect the eyes from flying objects. Sunglasses (with dark tinted lenses) keep too much sunlight from getting in people's eyes. Some glasses are tinted for special applications, fashion and light sensitivity conditions. Some eyeglasses, often with yellow lenses, block blue light from a computer, game, tablet, smart phone or TV.

Eyeglasses are made in many different styles. These may be worn for fashion or function. These styles include:

Historical styles


Goa

Goa (गोवा) is a state in the Republic of India. It is India's smallest state. It has the second smallest number of people. The total area is 1,430 mi² (3,702 km²), it is bigger than Samoa but smaller than the Georgian territory of South Ossetia. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the South Indian zone. It is on the west coast of India, in the region known as the Konkan. The state of Maharashtra is its neighbour to the north, and Karnataka to the east and south. The Arabian Sea makes up the state's west coast. Panjim is the state's capital, and Margao its largest town.

Portuguese merchants first landed in Goa in the 16th century but soon after, colonised it. It was a part of the Portuguese empire for about 450 years. In 1961 India took control of Goa by sending its army and defeating Portuguese army.

The 1961 Indian annexation of Goa, was an action by India’s armed forces that ended Portuguese rule in its Indian enclaves in 1961. The armed action, code named Operation Vijay by the Indian government, involved air, sea and land strikes for over 36 hours, and was a decisive victory for India, ending 451 years of Portuguese colonial rule in Goa. One of the problems vexing the Indian prime minister Jawarhalal Nehru in the 1950s was what to do about Goa. The situation began to come to a head in 1955 when a group of Goanese and Indian protesters staged a ‘liberation march’ in Goa and more than 20 of them were shot and killed.

He announced that Portuguese control of Goa could be tolerated no longer and instituted a blockade, which the Portuguese regime evaded by building an airport into which to fly supplies and by opening up trade with Pakistan and Sri Lanka. Portuguese dictator, Antonio Salazar tried to drum up international support from world leaders. President Kennedy wrote to Nehru advising him not to use force and the Portuguese ambassador in London reminded the British government that under the terms of the Anglo-Portuguese alliance of 1899 it was obliged to come to Portugal’s assistance if any Portuguese colony was attacked.

There were more incidents and in November 1961 the Portuguese in Goa opened fire on Indian fishing boats. Nehru lost patience and mounted a military, naval and air attack on Goa using overwhelming force on December 17th. The Portuguese governor, who had at the most 3,000 men to oppose an Indian army of 30,000, blew up a few bridges to delay the invaders but his situation was plainly hopeless and he hoisted the white flag and surrendered. There had been almost no resistance and few casualties.
Bounded on one side by the foothills of the Sahyadri range and on the other by the Arabian Sea Goa is a green natural paradise and best tourist spots in India. It is very truly said that living in Goa is a 365-day vacation. Goa is one of the best beach destinations in India due to the picturesque sunsets, beaches, historic forts, and laid-back life. Goa serves travelers of varied tastes, whether it's witnessing the majestic 600m high Dudhsagar Falls or trying your luck at Casino Royale. From the famous Fort Aguada to the blue waters. It is from the beaches of Dona Paula and Sinquerim, there is no shortage of points of interest in Goa.

Second language

A second language is a language that a person learns in addition to their first language. A second language may be learned in a formal or informal way, such as at school or in a family. A person may speak two or more second languages. 

Adults do not learn languages the same way that children do. Learning a second language is difficult for adults, who rarely speak it as well as their native language because it is much easier for children to learn a second language.

Some children have native multilingualism and so speak several languages, such as by living in a foreign country or having a father speaking a different language from their mother.


Ido

Ido is a constructed language, a so-called reformed Esperanto, which was developed in 1907. Ido was made by a group of people that thought Esperanto was too hard to be a world language. They did not like how Esperanto used letters with special diacritic marks over them, because that made it hard to type, and they thought that a world language should be easy to learn and write.

Ido is not as popular as Esperanto, but still about 100-200 people in the world speak it. They have a conference every year where people come together and speak the language.

At the beginning of the 20th century, the need for an international language was being thought about by many personalities, especially scientists and philosophers. This period goes along with a flowering of new international language projects. The math expert Leopold Leau creted the Delegation for the adoption of an international auxiliary language on January 17, 1901 with the support of many scientists. In 1906, the Delegation had received the support of more than 1,200 members of universities from different countries and more than 300 scientific societies.

In May 1907, the delegation sent the question of the International Association of the Vienna Academies, which declared itself unable to solve the issue, by 12 votes to 8. As a result, the delegation formed a working group whose members were elected by 242 votes out of a total of 253. Among them there were famous scientists, such as the language experts Jespersen, Schuchardt and Baudouin de Courtenay or even the chemist Ostwald. By cooptation, other personalities were admitted, such as the Italian math expert Peano. Léopold Leau and Louis Couturat were the secretaries of the committee.

The group met at the Collège de France during the month of October 1907 and examined many international language projects, presented by representatives of their authors. They quickly came to the result that there were only two international language projects worthy of interest: Esperanto and Idiom Neutral. However, on the last day, the Delegation chose "Ido". The author of this language was unknown to the Delegation (later it would be discovered that Couturat was the creator). Ido was a kind of combination between a kind of Esperanto and Idiom Neutral.

The group of the delegation decided to create a permanent Commission. This commission would be charged with "studying and fixing the details of the language to be adopted". Its members were Louis Couturat, Wilhelm Ostwald, Otto Jespersen, Baudouin de Courtenay and Leopold Leau.

A union of friends of the international language ("Uniono di la Amiki di la Linguo Internaciona") was founded. It included an academy and a Directing Committee. Also a monthly magazine, Progreso, was created in 1908 to publish language discussions and decisions of the Ido Academy.

The language would take the name "Ido", after Zamenhof rejected all nominations using the name "Esperanto".

The development of the language was completed in 1910 with the publication of the first language manuals and dictionaries. Finished its mission, the delegation dissolved regularly on July 31, 1910 after founding the "Uniono por la linguo internacional".

There was a debate between those who wanted to leave the language as it in to spread it and those who wanted to keep changing it (in order to improve it, according to them).

Finally, after many years of intense work, a period of ten years without further changes was decided in 1914 to make the language known.

However two terrible events stopped the spread of the language: on August 3, 1914, Louis Couturat died in a car crash, the same day that Germany declared war on France. The Idist movement actually survived in neutral countries such as Switzerland (including the activity of Schneeberger, Secretary of the Ido Union or the International Linguo), and Sweden (with Ahlberg, editor of the idista magazine Mondo). The magazine Progreso stopped being published in 1914.

After the war, the Idist movement was slowly built-up again. In 1920, Schneeberger, president of the Ido Academy, announced the resumption of the academy's work. Louis de Beaufront published in 1925 his "Complete Grammar" (Kompleta Gramatiko Detaloza). Many idist congresses have been organized: Vienna (1921), Dessau (1922), Kassel (1923), Luxembourg (1924), Turin (1925) and Prague (1926). Many Idist magazines have appeared since then.

In 1927, some serious disagreements divided the Idist movement. The appearance in 1922 of another auxiliary language, Occidental, and the reappearance of the argument between stability and change weakened Ido. For his part, Otto Jespersen, who broke away from the Idist movement, published his own linguistic project, Novial, in 1928. Novial, which contains many features of Ido while eliminating the more conspicuous elements of Esperanto (for example, noun endings in -o, adjectives in -a or conjugation, in -is, -as, -os) attracted some Idists like Ahlberg whose Idist newspaper Mondo became a Novialist magazine.

The Zurich Idist congress of 1928 marks the beginning of the reunification of the Idist movement. L'Uniono by the international Linguo Ido is reactivated and an official written announcement is published. Progress magazine reappears from 1931 and without interruption until today.

There were debate about the opportunity to make new changes but until in 1934 a new period of stability was declared for ten years. On the other hand, the international situation had again become bad for international languages, with the rise of Nazism as well as Stalinism, followed by the Second World War. The first concern of the Idist movement had become mere survival.

The Idist movement survived World War II. Progreso magazine has never stopped appearing. Later the language changing stopped.

An important poetic production has grown in Ido by many authors, whose main author continues to be the Belgian Andreas Juste. He was the most important person in the Idist movement between the years 1960-1998. His collection includes a library with more than 250 books on Ido or in Ido and many texts on Ido. In 2009, it was maintained by the association Juste & Co.

In 2009, the Idist movement is present on the Internet. There are many websites. Many discussion lists on Ido or about Ido are active. There is a Wikipedia in Ido. The Idist magazines Progreso, Kuriero Internaciona and Ido-Saluto appear regularly. Idist reunions happen every year. It is, along with Interlingua, the second most widely spoken auxiliary language.

Ido is easy to learn for many reasons:

Each word in Ido comes from a smaller word called a "root word". A root word has a root and an ending. The speaker can take the root and put it on another word to make a new one. For example, "urbo" means "city" and "-estro" means "leader". The root of "urbo" is "urb-", and if -estro is put on the end, it becomes "urbestro", which means mayor (leader of a city). Or the speaker can put something on before; chef- means chief or leader, and if the speaker puts that before the word it becomes "chefurbo", which means capital city.

Here are some of the endings:

Pronouns are the words in a language like I, thou, he, she, it, we, ye, they, and so on. Ido was made from Esperanto, and all of Esperanto's pronouns end in -i. The people that made Ido thought that they sounded too much the same and that it might be too difficult to hear sometimes. Also, most languages have two ways of saying "you" so they decided to have two ways of saying you. Lastly, they decided to make a pronoun that can mean "he" or "she". Some languages like the Finnish language and the Estonian language have something like this.

Here is a chart of all the pronouns in English, Ido, and Esperanto.

A lot of books were published in Ido until the crisis of 1927-28. It is worth mentioning the booklet "Makedonia a la Makedoniani", published in 1913. At the same time appeared "Nova Horizonti", a work by J. Barral.

During the First World War appeared "Buddho e lua doktrino" and, in 1923, an important anthology of texts translated from Hungarian literature was published. During the 1920s, Catholic Idist published booklets about saints' lives. The work "Esther" by Jean Racine and translated by the priest Guignon is worth mentioning.

With regards to poetry, Andreas Juste is the most famous poet in Ido. He gave new force to Ido literature in the 1970s. Other poets are Lui Pasko (Spain), Jules Houillon (France), Gilbert H. Richardson (Great Britain), Jules Gross (France), Heidi Neussner (Germany), Friedrich Porzenheim (Germany) and Gonçalo Neves (Portugal).

There are also some science fiction works like "La suno di Tiahuanako", published in 1999 by G. T. Romanin. It was the first of this genre published in the language. He then published "Skandalo en Roseringen" in 2005. Also in that year was published "La Sucedanto", a detective novel by Eduardo A. Rodi (Argentina). He also published "Narkotanti". The Mexican Jose Cossio Ramírez published two science fiction books "L' Aventuri dil Amazonia: Unesma Kontakto" and (2006) and "L' Aventuri dil Amazonia II: Gravito Zero" (2007).

In 2006, Robert Pontnau published "GDR 66", a booklet about the German Democratic Republic. Since December 2012, Brian E. Drake has published a lot of books in Ido, both original and translations.

Ido is a language that came from Esperanto, so they look very similar. Since Esperanto has more speakers than Ido, most people that know Ido first learned Esperanto and then later learned that Ido is a language, too. Sometimes Idists (people who speak Ido) and Esperantists (people who speak Esperanto) do not agree with each other. Luckily they both agree that making a language that everybody can learn is a good idea. Most Idists and Esperantists can understand most of each other's language.

Some people criticise Ido for the way it was presented by Louis Couturat, who was not supposed to defend any constructed language during the Congress in which he was part of the jury.

Another critique, done by the ex-Idist Ric Berger, is that the system of derivation is too complex, with suffixes that make derivation more difficult.

Here are samples of the language Ido to show what the language looks like. On the right is a page from a magazine in Ido called "Adavane!" (forward), written by an Ido group in Spain every two months. This is a page from a diary by a girl named Anne Frank, a Jewish girl from the Netherlands that was killed in 1944 by the German government of Adolf Hitler.

Below is a small part of the book "The Little Prince" called "La Princeto" in Ido.

CHAPITRO XVII

This was a song by a bard from Russia named Alexandr Sukhanov; he used words from the poetry of another Russian person named Yunna Mortis. This is the Ido version, sung with guitar.

People who know Ido come together for a few days every year to meet each other and speak the language. Most Ido speakers live in Europe and so the conventions (a meeting of people) have taken place in Europe.
Information on Ido conferences (the section that says raporto is the report on the convention written in Ido).


Javier Solana

Francisco Javier Solana de Madariaga (born July 14, 1942 in Madrid) is a Spanish physicist, politician and diplomat.

He is the former Secretary General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) and also the former European Union foreign policy chief.

Solana was studying in both the United Kingdom and the United States before returning to Spain with Nicolás Cabrera, and becoming a professor of solid state physics in the Complutense University.

Having already joined the banned PSOE left-wing party in 1964, he became one of its leaders when it became legal in 1977. He became a Cabinet Minister, serving first as Minister for Culture and party spokesman, then Minister for Education, then Minister for Foreign Affairs, before being made NATO boss in December 1995, just as the Dayton agreement saw the IFOR NATO peacekeeping mission enter the former Yugoslavia. He was also involved in the Kosovo bombings, and the negotiations that led to an eventual peace.

In March 2020, Solana tested positive for COVID-19.

Paragraph

A paragraph is a collection of words strung together to make a longer unit than a sentence. Several sentences often make a paragraph. There are normally three to eight sentences in a paragraph. Paragraphs can start with a five-space indentation or by skipping a line and then starting over. This makes it simpler to tell when one paragraph ends and the next starts simply it has 3-9 lines.

A topic phrase appears in most ordered types of writing, such as essays. This paragraph's topic sentence informs the reader about the topic of the paragraph. In most essays, numerous paragraphs make statements to support a thesis statement, which is the essay's fundamental point.

Paragraphs may signal when the writer changes topics. Each paragraph may have a number of sentences, depending on the topic.

A pilcrow mark (¶) is sometimes used to show where a paragraph begins.

Lansing, Michigan

Lansing is the capital city of the U.S. state of Michigan. It is about 1 to 2 hours west of Detroit. It is in the center of the Lower Peninsula of Michigan.

The landscape is flat. There is a lot of agriculture.

Parody

A parody is a special piece of art.

Parodies make fun of another piece of art by mocking it.

The parody is an imitation of the original, but exaggerating it, showing clichés which have been used, to make the original look ridiculous or to make a comment about an issue affecting society.

For example, in a serious Western movie, the good guys always seem to shoot better and faster than the bad guys. In a Western parody, this might be exaggerated by showing a good guy firing a single shot, and a dozen of the bad guys falling from their horses as a result.

Mel Brooks is a director who has made many movies which are parodies:


The website Uncyclopedia is also a parody of Wikipedia.

Parodies can be anything from songs to poems to books to movies.

A movie that makes a parody of another movie or several movies at once is a parody movie. 

Newspaper columnists are well known for their strip cartoons which can very often parody public opinion on major issues affecting society, such as the recent credit crunch.


Fact

A fact is a statement that is real or true, or a thing that can be "shown" to be real or true. That is its core meaning, though the word has a long history, and has been used in many ways. 

A fact is something that has really happened or is actually the case. The usual test for a statement of fact is whether it can be shown to be true. Standard reference works are often used to check facts. Scientific facts are verified by careful observation or measurement (by experiments or other means).

A fact is a statement (a claim) about something that is true. A fact can answer questions like, "what color is it?" or "who made that?"

An opinion is different from a fact. But you can say facts about a person's opinion. For example, someone can ask a question like "What is Alice's opinion about the book?" You can answer this question with a fact, for example "Alice said she likes the book." Then it is a fact that Alice "says" she likes the book. But maybe Alice does not like the book. So it is not a fact that Alice likes the book, but it is a fact that Alice "says" she likes the book.

One way to learn a fact is if a person can help you see it. For example, if you ask, "do you have my book?" To answer this question, a person can let you see your book. Then you can know it is a fact that this person has your book.

These examples show that there are facts of different kinds.


A scientific theory is knowledge of important facts about a natural thing. The facts in a scientific theory have evidence that shows that the fact is not false. 

A person who understands the scientific method can test to see if the facts of a scientific theory are correct. When statements have been tested and shown to be not false, they may be "true". The facts of each scientific theory have usually been questioned and tested by many people. Because of this, we know that the knowledge of a scientific theory is fact and not opinion. Examples of scientific theories include the theory of relativity and the theory of evolution. More simply, it is a fact that the Earth goes around the Sun (and not vice versa). This took so long to establish because a leading religious body had the reverse opinion (see articles on Galileo and Copernicus for the story). Now we can say that there is a difference between statements of fact, and opinions or claimed truths of religion. "The difference is in the way disputes about the truth are decided".

Victim

Victim is a term used for a person who suffers adverse circumstances, often in relation to having a crime committed against them. If someone is robbed, he or she is the victim. If someone is killed, that person is the victim. The person who committed the crime is the culprit.
Victim blaming is saying that it is the fault of the victim that a crime was committed against them.

Culprit

A culprit is a person who commits a crime. If someone robs a person, the robber is the culprit, while the person who was robbed is the victim.

Shot put

Shot put is an athletics sport where people try to "put" a heavy weighted ball as far as they can. They are not allowed to throw it, but instead they push the ball out into the air. They "put" the ball by holding it at their neck and pushing it through the air. The shot put has been part of the Olympics since 1896. The weight of the ball can vary from 6 to 16 pounds (2.76 to 7.26 kg), depending on level age and gender of the participants. The main objective of the sport is to throw the ball as far as possible.

The shot put is similar to the javelin. It is an official Olympic event and can be seen at the Olympic games. The athlete cannot wear gloves when they are participating. If wearing gloves, the athlete would be disqualified.

It is an outdoor event and cannot be played inside. It is a track and field event.

The first evidence for stone- or weight-throwing events were in the Scottish Highlands, and date back to the first century. In the 16th century King Henry VIII was noted for his prowess in court competitions of weight and hammer throwing.

There are two types of putting styles: "glide" and "spin" (rotation). The glide was invented in the US in the year 1876. The spin was also developed in the US. It was invented by Parry O'Brian and made famous by Brian Oldfield.


Shot put was originally used in the Olympics to see who was the strongest athlete. Each athlete threw from a wooden square, and could only stand to throw. The shot put was a large stone ball. That is now a metal ball not softer than brass.




