Mississippi


Mississippi is one of the states of the United States. Its capital and largest city is Jackson. The state flower and tree are the magnolia. Other large cities are Biloxi, Greenville, Gulfport, Hattiesburg, Meridian, Pascagoula, Southaven, Tupelo, Starkville, and Vicksburg. It touches Arkansas (by the Mississippi River), Louisiana, Tennessee, and Alabama.

The climate of Mississippi is subtropical.

The first people to settle in Mississippi were Native Americans before the arrival of Europeans. African slaves worked on cotton plantations in the state. Mississippi has the highest percentage of African Americans of any state.

Delaware

Delaware () is a state in the United States. It is sometimes called the "First State" because it was the first colony to accept the new constitution in 1787. Its capital is Dover and its biggest city is Wilmington. It is the second smallest state in the United States.

The Dutch first settled Delaware. The Swedish then took over in the mid-1600s.

Delaware is long and ranges from to across, totaling , making it the second-smallest state in the United States after Rhode Island. Delaware is bounded to the north by Pennsylvania; to the east by the Delaware River, Delaware Bay, New Jersey and the Atlantic Ocean; and to the west and south by Maryland.

Delaware is on a flat plain, with the lowest mean elevation of any state in the nation. Its highest elevation, located at Ebright Azimuth, near Concord High School, is less than above sea level.

The transitional climate of Delaware supports a wide variety of vegetation. In the northern third of the state are found Northeastern coastal forests and mixed Oak forests typical of the northeastern United States. In the southern two-thirds of the state are found Middle Atlantic coastal forests. Trap Pond State Park, along with areas in other parts of Sussex County, for example, support the northernmost stands of bald cypress trees in North America.

Delaware provides government subsidy support for the clean-up of property "lightly contaminated" by hazardous waste. The money for this cleanup comes from a tax on wholesale petroleum sales.

Delaware's sister state in Japan is Miyagi Prefecture.



