Dylan Thomas


Dylan Marlais Thomas (27 October 1914 – 9 November 1953) was a Welsh poet. He was born in the town of Swansea. He published his first book of poetry in 1932. In addition to writing poetry, he was an excellent speaker. He toured the United Kingdom and the United States reciting his poems. He wrote works for radio including ""A Child's Christmas in Wales"" and ""Under Milk Wood""
Thomas is one of the famous people who appears on the cover of The Beatles, Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band album.

Leo Gorcey

Leo Bernard Gorcey (June 3, 1917 – June 2, 1969) was an American actor. He is most famous for appearing the "Dead End Kids" series.

Gorcey was one of the famous people who appeared on The Beatles' "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" album, but he asked to have his picture removed.

Indiana

Indiana is a U.S. state in the midwestern and Great Lakes regions of North America. Its capital and largest city is Indianapolis. Other cities and towns include Bloomington, Gary, Fort Wayne, South Bend, Evansville, Muncie, Lafayette, and Marion. People who live in Indiana are sometimes called "Hoosiers".

Indiana's state bird is the cardinal. Indiana's state flower is the peony. Indiana's state tree is a tulip tree.

Indiana has borders with four other states: Illinois, Kentucky, Michigan, and Ohio. It also touches Lake Michigan, which is the only one of the Great Lakes that is completely inside the United States.

Before it was called Indiana, most people who lived there were indigenous. France colonized the area, renaming it New France. They enslaved the indigenous peoples, and introduced black slaves. In the 18th century, the United States took the area from France. Many slave owners from Kentucky and Virginia moved into the area. By 1820, it had become a state called Indiana. The government ordered all slaves to be freed, but black people were still enslaved there into at least the 1830s.

One attraction of Indiana is the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, where the Indianapolis 500 is held every year. The Indianapolis 500 is one of the biggest car races in the United States. The Indianapolis Motor Speedway is not actually in Indianapolis. It is in a town called Speedway, which is completely surrounded by Indianapolis.

The Indianapolis 500 car race is based in Indianapolis. Professional sports teams include the Indianapolis Colts of the National Football League (NFL) and the Indiana Pacers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). Colleges and universities in Indiana with well-known sports teams include Purdue University, the University of Notre Dame, and Indiana University.

The Indiana Statehouse is the official State Capitol Complex of the State of Indiana



