Ferret


Ferrets ("Mustela putorius furo") are domestic animals. They are the domestic form of the European polecat. They are in the weasel genus of the family Mustelidae.

Ferrets have an average length of 20 inches (51 cm) including a 5-inch (13 cm) tail, weigh about . They live for about 7–10 years. Males are larger than females. They are sociable animals, and are usually kept in groups of two or more.

With their long thin body, ferrets look like a large weasel. They may have different colours and markings on their fur. A lot of ferrets in one place will sometimes have a strange smell. This is caused by natural oils produced by the ferrets.

As naturally crepuscular animals, ferrets tend to sleep during the day. This deters many people from getting them although most ferret owners say their ferrets change their sleeping schedules to that of their owners.

Domesticated ferrets are used for hunting, or can be kept as pets. Hunting with ferrets is called ferreting. Because of their thin body, they can go down into holes and hunt rodents and rabbits. Ferrets have been kept as pets since the Middle Ages.

Ferrets suffer from several health problems. Some of the most common health problems are cancers affecting the adrenal glands, pancreas, and lymphatic system. Viral diseases include canine distemper and influenza. Health problems can happen in unspayed females when not being used for breeding. Certain colors of ferret may also carry a genetic defect known as Waardenburg syndrome. Similar to domestic cats, ferrets can also suffer from hairballs and dental problems

Ferrets are legal to have as a pet in most places. They are not legal in a few places in the United States. Ferrets should be vaccinated. A breeder or pet store will get it spayed or neutered and also de-scented. Ferrets can spray the natural oils from their anal glands similar to that of a skunk if not de-scented.

Ferrets are very flexible and can fit into small holes to flush out rabbits or rodents. Ferrets can get through open vents or small holes in walls. Ferrets are good climbers so if curtains are touching the floor they can easily climb the curtains.

Ferrets should be kept in a group, unless you can provide them with multiple hours of activity, they get quite bored when alone. Ferrets tend to sleep curled up together in a ball usually making them indistinguishable from one another.

Ferrets are carnivores and cannot tolerate grains or vegetable matter well. Their diet should consist of around 20% fat and 80% meat. Ferrets need a high calorie diet: commercial dog and cat foods do not contain enough fats and protein to suit them. Feeding them such a diet while convenient will ultimately shorten the ferrets life.

Ferrets are subject to insulinoma and as such they should not be given fruits except on rare occasions as a treat. Raisins are a favorite of most ferret but should be given extremely sparingly. Fresh chicken, turkey or even duck is a good choice for your ferret. Commercial ferret foods are available but many contain grains and also fruits and as such are not suitable for them. Research brand ingredients or find a recipe to make your own.

Three Dog Night

Three Dog Night is an American rock band. They were popular from the late 1960s and early 1970s. They had 21 hit singles and 12 gold albums between 1969 and 1975. 


Grand Funk Railroad

Grand Funk Railroad were an American rock group from Flint, Michigan. They were popular in the early and mid 1970s.

The Sweet

The Sweet (also known as Sweet) are a British glam rock band. The group is famous for the songs such as "Ballroom Blitz", "Little Willy", "Fox on the Run" and "Love is Like Oxygen". The group was originally called Sweetshop.


Prince (musician)

Prince Rogers Nelson (better known as Prince) (June 7, 1958 – April 21, 2016) was an American musician and dancer. He was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota.

He was known for blending erotic lyrics with funk rock and technology. He had ten platinum albums and thirty Top 40 singles during his career. His releases have sold over 350 million copies worldwide. From 1993 to 2000, Prince changed his name to a glyph. Since this symbol was impossible to pronounce, people began calling him "The Artist Formerly Known As Prince."

In addition to his own musical career, he was a "talent promoter" for the careers of Sheila E., Carmen Electra, The Time and Vanity 6.

Prince has sold over 400 million records worldwide, making him one of the best-selling artists of all time. He won seven Grammy Awards, a Golden Globe Award, and an Academy Award. "Rolling Stone" ranked Prince at number 27 on its list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time. He was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004. This was the first year he was eligible.

On April 21, 2016, Prince died of a fentanyl overdose at his Paisley Park recording studio and home in Chanhassen, Minnesota at the age of 57.

Prince Rogers Nelson was born on June 7, 1958 in Minneapolis, Minnesota. His father was John Lewis Nelson who was a Jazz musician and his mother was Mattie Della Shaw. His family was from Louisiana. He had epilepsy when he was younger. His sister was Tyka Nelson. He played basketball when he was in high school.

Prince released his first single, "Soft and Wet", in 1978. It reached number 92 in the "Billboard" 100. In 1979 "I Wanna Be Your Lover" was number one for two weeks in the American R&B singles chart.

Prince released his third album "Dirty Mind" in 1980. "Rolling Stone" gave the album four and a half stars.

In 1982 Prince released his fifth album "1999". "Little Red Corvette" was released as the second single. Prince had his first number one single, "When Doves Cry", in 1984. The single he released after that, "Let's Go Crazy", also reached number one. In 1985 "Around the World in a Day" was released. The album's first single "Raspberry Beret" reached number two in the Billboard 100. Prince's next number one "Kiss" was in 1986. It won the Grammy Award for Best R&B Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal. "U Got the Look" was released in 1987. It reached number two in the "Billboard" 100.

In 1990 Sinead O'Connor reached number one with her cover of Prince's song "Nothing Compares 2 U". Prince was angry about this.

In 2006 the second single from Prince's album "3121" entered the "Billboard" 100 at number 60. This was the highest number a Prince single had entered the chart at for years.

In 2014 it was reported that Prince would be signed to Warner Bros. again. Prince released a new single on April 19 called "The Breakdown".

In May 2015, following the death of Freddie Gray and the riots, Prince released a song entitled "Baltimore" in tribute to Gray and in support of the protesters in Baltimore. He also held a surprise tribute concert for Gray at his Paisley Park estate called 'Dance Rally 4 Peace' in which he asked fans to wear the color gray in honor of Freddie Gray.

His album "Hit n Run Phase One" was first made available on September 7, 2015 on music streaming service Tidal before being released on CD and download on September 14.

In 2016, Prince announced that he was writing a memoir, titled "The Beautiful Ones".

Over the years Prince was romantically linked with many celebrities. These include Madonna, Vanity, Sheila E., Carmen Electra, Susanna Hoffs, Anna Fantastic, Sherilyn Fenn, and Susan Moonsie of Vanity 6 and Apollonia 6.

Prince was engaged to Susannah Melvoin in 1985.

He married his backup singer and dancer, Mayte Garcia, on Valentine's Day, 1996. They had a son, amiir (born October 16, 1996). He was born with Pfeiffer syndrome and died a week after birth. Prince and Mayte divorced in 1999. In 2001, Prince married Manuela Testolini in a private ceremony. Testolini filed for divorce in May 2006. He had been in a relationship with Bria Valente from 2007.

Prince was raised Seventh Day Adventist and became a member of the Jehovah's Witnesses in 2001.

Prince postponed two performances from his Piano & A Microphone Tour on April 7, 2016, at the Fox Theatre in Atlanta, Georgia, stating that he was "battling the flu". He performed that Atlanta concert on Thursday, April 15, even though he had still not been feeling well. On April 15, 2016, while on tour, his private plane made an emergency landing in Moline, Illinois. He was later admitted to hospital with flu-like symptoms. Early reports said his health was fine.

Prince was found dead at his home in Paisley Park recording studio in Chanhassen, Minnesota, on April 21, 2016. He was aged 57. Six days before his death, Prince was treated for a drug overdose. He was treated for dehydration and "walking pneumonia" (the formal name is atypical pneumonia) shortly before his death. His autopsy was performed the next day on April 22. Afterwards, his remains were cremated. Their location will be kept private. Toxicology tests showed that he died of an overdose of fentanyl, an opioid painkiller.

Studio albums

Live albums

Remix albums

Compilation albums

The New Power Generation albums

Prince won an Academy Award in 1985 for his song "Purple Rain".
Earning 33 nominations, Prince has won seven Grammys. He also has had two albums − "1999" and "Purple Rain" − awarded the Grammy Hall of Fame Award.

The MTV Video Music Awards (VMAs) is an award show by cable network MTV to honor the top music videos of the year. It was first held in September 1984. It was to be an alternative to the Grammy Awards in the video category. Prince has won four awards from twelve nominations throughout his career.


Duane Eddy

Duane Eddy (born April 26, 1938) was a Grammy Award-winning American rock guitarist. Many people enjoyed his music and tried to play the same way as he did. He is best known for the music that he played without singing words. He is probably best known for his hit song Rebel Rouser (1958). Released in 1960, Eddy was the first rock and roller to have a signature model guitar. 

<br>

Nurse

A nurse is a person who is trained to give care to people who are sick or injured. Nurses work with doctors and other health care workers to make patients well and to keep them fit and healthy. Nurses also help with end-of-life needs and assist other family members with grieving.

Nursing is a profession, like a doctor, but training for a nurse is different in how long a person must train and what kind of training they need. In some places, nurses may train for three to five years or more before they get a license as a nurse.

Nurses work in many places. Nurses work in hospitals, in doctor's offices, and in the community, and they even visit people at home if they can not get out.

Sometimes people decide to become nurses rather than doctors, because the nurses will be able to help patients directly, by talking to them, doing things they need, carefully watching that nothing goes wrong, and then seeing them as they get better.

Like doctors, nurses can choose what work they do. Some nurses train and work to help during surgery. Some nurses train to help people understand health problems like nutrition (what to eat), and disease (what can make people sick). Nurses can do many different jobs to help people.

Nurses are in demand across the world because there are not enough nurses to handle the growing number of people who need care Some nurses travel to another location to work for a few months in what is called travel nursing. Many migrate to richer countries. The British National Health Service, like many others, has relied for many years on importing nurses from poorer countries because not enough were trained in the UK. In 2023 there were more Ghanaian nurses in NHS than in Ghana. Nursing associates who have less training were introduced in 2018. 7,900 nursing associates were working in the NHS in 2022 but only 391 have gone on to become a registered nurse

Registered Nurse in some countries like U.S is a term for an officially registered nurse. In hospitals where nurses wear uniforms with caps, an R.N. is recognizable by the fact that the cap has two black stripes.

Nursing in Australia is done by "Registered Nurses" or "Enrolled Nurses". Both must complete education past high school. An Enrolled Nurse must complete a course of study between 12 and 18 months. Registered Nurses need to complete a Bachelor's degree.

Titles have changed because men as well as women can be nurses. It was, in most countries, a wholly female occupation. The titles were designed for females and have now been revised to be genderless. The exception to this is midwife, a term still used because it seems natural that a nurse helping a mother through childbirth should be a female. There are some males acting as midwives. The supervisory body for UK nursing is the Nursing and Midwifery Council.

Some medical and surgical groups operate as teams. This means that senior surgeons always operate with the same group of people, so reducing the risk of mistakes, and allowing juniors to learn and understand the individual cases.

Also, moving around as a team allows specialist groups to serve more than one hospital. This is particularly useful when the amount of work in a speciality does not permit having a full team on site in each hospital. 


Violent Femmes

Violent Femmes is a rock group. They formed in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA in 1980.

Ozzy Osbourne

John Michael "Ozzy" Osbourne (born 3 December 1948) is an English heavy metal singer.

Osbourne was born in Marston Green Hospital in Marston Green, England. , He grew up in Aston, Birmingham, England. He has dyslexia. He was convicted of burglary when he was a teenager, for which he was fined. He was sent to prison for not paying the fine.

Osbourne was the lead singer for Black Sabbath between 1968 and 1978. He joined again in 1997 for occasional tours. Osbourne and Bob Daisley wrote a song called 'Suicide Solution', which was released on Blizzard of Ozz. It was heavily ridiculed claiming it was about suicide, which coincided with the words "shoot, shoot" whispered in the song. Osbourne was replaced by former Rainbow vocalist Ronnie James Dio in June 1979. However, Daisley states it's about Osbourne’s substance and alcohol abuse. He bit the head off of a bat on stage while on a solo tour in Des Moines, Iowa supporting the Bark at the Moon album.

He and his wife Sharon have three children together: Aimee, Kelly and Jack. He also has three children from his first marriage to Thelma Riley: Elliot, Jessica, and Louis.

Osbourne released his first solo album, "Blizzard of Ozz" in 1980.

He was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease in 2000, which he publicly revealed in January 2020.




