Vanuatu


Vanuatu is a country in the Pacific Ocean. The official languages of Vanuatu are Bislama, English and French. In 2020, 300,019 people lived in Vanuatu. The capital of Vanuatu is Port Vila. The country was ruled as a colony by England and France. It got its independence in 1980. During the colonial time, it was named the "New Hebrides" or "Nouvelles Hebrides".

Evidence shows, that people lived in Vanuatu by 1300 BC. Portuguese explorer Pedro Fernández de Quirós first discovered the islands in 1606. British explorer, navigator James Cook discovered the islands in 1774. Cook mapped the islands and named them "New Hebrides".

Vanuatu is an island archipelago. It has about 82 small islands. The islands were made from volcanoes. People live on 65 of the islands. There is about north to south distance between the outermost islands. Two of the islands (Matthew and Hunter) are also claimed by France. Fourteen of Vanuatu's islands are larger than .

The highest point in Vanuatu is Mount Tabwemasana, at , on the island of Espiritu Santo.

Even though it has tropical forests, Vanuatu has a small number of plant and animal species. There are no large mammals. The 19 species of native reptiles include the flowerpot snake, found only on Efate. The Fiji Banded Iguana ("Brachylophus fasciatus") was introduced as a feral animal in the 1960s. There are 11 species of bats and 61 species of land and water birds.

The region is rich in sea life. There are more than 4,000 species of marine molluscs. Coneshell and stonefish carry poison that will kill humans. The giant East African land snail arrived only in the 1970s but already has spread from the Port-Vila region to Luganville.

There are three or possibly four adult saltwater crocodiles living in Vanuatu's mangroves and no current breeding population. It is said the crocodiles reach the northern part of the islands after cyclones. This is because of the island chain's closeness to the Solomon Islands and New Guinea, where crocodiles are very common.

The national dish of Vanuatu is the lap lap.

There are six provinces in Vanuatu. They are Malampa, Penama, Sanma, Shefa, Tafea and Torba.

Some of the cities are:

Adele Willie is a sports commentator. 

Jack

Jack is a male given name. It might also mean:


Stuff

Stuff is a mass of many things listed below, matter, or events.


In computing:

In sports:

Crayola

Crayola is an American brand of crayons and other writing and drawing utensils, such as markers, chalk and colored pencils. The company used to be called "Binney & Smith Company". It is based in Northampton, Massachusetts. Since 1984, it has been owned by the company Hallmark Cards.

Crayola is brand of crayons and other writing and drawing utensils, such as markers, chalk and colored pencils made by the Binney & Smith Inc. company, which is part of the card company Hallmark.

Binney and Smith made industrial products before 1900, but in 1903 started to make Crayola crayons. The name came from a word used by the wife of Mr. Binney. The first box had eight colors: blue, green, red, yellow, black, brown, orange and violet. They became well known because they were the best crayons at that time. Later, the company made more products, including boxes of 48, 64, 96, 120 and 200 Crayons, colored pencils and markers.

The following is a list of colors included in the 12, 24, 36, 50 and 64 packs of Crayola's standard colored pencils. Color values are approximate. Colored Pencils from "Guppie Green" to "UFO Green" are 14 of the ultra-cool and super-hot colored pencils that were issued in July 2010.

The following is a complete list of colors included in the 12, 24, 36, 50, 60, and 100 packs of Crayola's standard colored pencils. Color values are approximate.

The year of the introduction of the 12, 24, 36, 50, 60, and 100 packs of colored pencils is unknown.

The current 100 pack has the 60 pack colors with 40 colors doubled, but 100 packs produced in 2014 or earlier include the 45 additional colors, but 5 colors are removed: Gold, Silver, Metallic Blue, Metallic Bronze, and Metallic Copper.

98 colors are on this list, there may be a few missing, but the list is mostly complete. Just like with the crayons, some colors have since been retired.

Art markers come in 40 colors. This is all 40 colors.

Ringo Starr

Sir Richard Starkey (born 7 July 1940), known professionally as Ringo Starr, is an English actor and musician. He is known as a former member of the Beatles.

He joined the group in 1962 as a replacement for their first drummer Pete Best. He quickly became well-liked and very popular. He sang lead on some of the band's songs including "Yellow Submarine", "Act Naturally", "Don't Pass Me By", and "Octopus's Garden".

After the group broke up he became a solo artist; his songs included "It Don't Come Easy", "Photograph" (written with George Harrison), "You're Sixteen" (featuring Paul McCartney and Harry Nilsson), and "Only You (And You Alone)" (with John Lennon and again with Nilsson). Ringo sang "I Want To Be A Powerpuff Girl" for the children's television show "The Powerpuff Girls".

Starr acted in several movies aside from the ones he did with the Beatles, including "The Magic Christian" (1969), "That'll Be The Day" (1973), "Caveman" (1980), and the role of Mr. Conductor on the children's show "Shining Time Station", during its first season (1989), the Comedian George Carlin later took over the role.

He also narrated the children's show "Thomas the Tank Engine and Friends" for the first two seasons (1984-1986).

He also made a movie with the Beatles called "A Hard Day's Night" in 1964.

Since the 1990s, Ringo has toured with "Ringo Starr & His All-Starr Band". The band consists of Ringo and members that regularly change, usually, the members are either famous musicians, or musicians that have been associated with Ringo, The Beatles and/or the members of the band.



