Villeneuve-d'Ascq


Villeneuve-d'Ascq (which means "New city of Ascq" in French) is one of the main cities of the metropolis of Lille, in France. It is between Lille and Roubaix, at the crossroads of the principal freeways towards Paris, Ghent, Antwerp and Brussels,

Villeneuve-d'Ascq has more than 65,000 people and attracts 50,000 students.
The average age of people there is 29 years.

The city has about 10 km² of greenspace, lakes, forests and farmland.

The roots of the city go back to Celtic Gaul, and are anchored in two feudal mounds, a Gallo-Roman site and a Carolingian one.

Its site was selected in the 1960s to accommodate the new town of Lille-Est. It was made to channel the development of the agglomeration. The commune of Villeneuve-d'Ascq was created in 1970 by combining three communes (Ascq, Annapes and Flers). Its name reminds people at the same time the new city and the memory of Ascq, martyr city of April 1, 1944, date on which the Nazis killed 86 men.

Hillary Clinton

Hillary Diane Rodham Clinton (born October 26, 1947) is an American politician and diplomat. She was the 67th United States secretary of state from 2009 to 2013 under Barack Obama. She was a United States senator from 2001 to 2009 from New York. Clinton was also the first lady of the United States from 1993 to 2001 as the wife of President Bill Clinton.

She was elected to the U.S. Senate in 2000. She became the first female senator from New York and the first presidential wife to hold a political office, during and after her husband's term as president.

Clinton ran for president in 2008, but lost to Barack Obama in the Democratic primaries. She resigned from the Senate in January 2009 to become the U.S. Secretary of State. 

She was harshly criticized for her failure to prevent or respond to the 2012 Benghazi attack. She later resigned from the Obama administration in February 2013.

Clinton made a second presidential run in 2016. She became the first woman to be nominated by a major political party for president. 

Clinton won the Democratic nomination, but lost the election to Republican opponent Donald Trump in the Electoral College, despite winning the popular vote. 

Following her loss, she has wrote multiple books and has been serving as the chancellor of the Queen's University Belfast since January 2020.

Hillary Diane Rodham was born at Edgewater Medical Center in Chicago. She was raised in Park Ridge, a suburb located northwest of downtown Chicago. Her parents were Hugh E. Rodham and Dorothy Emma Howell Rodham. She is of Welsh, English, French and French Canadian ancestry. Hillary grew up with two younger brothers, Hugh and Tony.

She studied at Maine East High School and Maine South High School. She finished high school in 1965, and enrolled at Wellesley College in Massachusetts.

In 1969, Rodham entered Yale Law School. She received a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree from Yale in 1973. Then, she began a year of post-graduate study on children and medicine at the Yale Child Study Center.

When she was First Lady, she tried to change the health care system. Some people didn't like it when the planning meetings were kept secret away from the public. In the end, too many people did not want the changes that she wanted.

Another major event during the time she was First Lady was when the public found out in 1998 that Bill Clinton had a sexual relationship with Monica Lewinsky in the mid-1990s. There was stress in the marriage partly because Bill had to go to trial (impeachment) because he was accused of lying to the court (during a deposition).

When she decided that she wanted to be senator, she chose New York even though she never lived there. Some accused her of "carpetbagging" because of this. She went on to win the election and won a second term in 2006.

When the war between the United States-led coalition and Iraq was about to start, she voted in favor of the war, which, as of 2015, she had said she regrets doing.

Hillary Clinton had raised more money than anybody else in the 2008 Presidential campaign, but later had big money problems for her campaign by May 7, 2008. She lost the party nomination to Barack Obama, but she campaigned for Obama after this.

In mid-November 2008, Obama and Clinton talked about whether she could be the next U.S. Secretary of State in his presidency. On November 21, there were reports that said Hillary Clinton had accepted his offer.

During her term as Secretary of State, Clinton used her position to make women's rights and human rights a focus of U.S. initiatives. She became one of the most traveled secretaries of state in American history. She promoted the use of social media to convey the country's positions. She also led U.S. diplomatic efforts in responding to the Arab Spring and military intervention in Libya.

Clinton did not want to serve a second term as secretary. Once Barack Obama won his re-election, he announced that John Kerry would succeed Clinton as secretary. Clinton left office on February 1, 2013.

In 2016, Clinton became the first woman in the History of the United States to be a major party presidential candidate. Clinton did not want to run for president in 2016, but after much of a majority support from the Democratic party, on April 12, 2015, speculation ended as Clinton formally announced her candidacy via email and the release of a video saying, "Everyday Americans need a champion. And I want to be that champion." In the polls, Clinton maintained her lead for the nomination although she faced several challenges from Senator Bernie Sanders. A NBC/Wall Street Journal poll conducted in May found Clinton and presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump in a tie. Clinton and Trump were the least popular likely candidates in the poll's history. This made it difficult for her campaign.

Clinton became the presumptive nominee on June 6, 2016.

Clinton lost the general election to Donald Trump winning 227 of the electoral college to Trump's 304. Clinton won the popular vote however 48% to Trump's 46%.

In April 2017, Clinton said that she will not seek public office again.

While working as a faculty member at the Law School of the University of Arkansas, she married Bill Clinton on October 11, 1975. He was also working as a faculty member at the same university. Both knew each other and were classmates at the Yale Law School. Their only child is daughter Chelsea Clinton, born on February 27, 1980.

Andhra Pradesh

Andhra Pradesh () () is a state in the Republic of India. It has a population of 75,727,000 people according to the census of 2001. The eastern boundary is a coastline along the Bay of Bengal. Its latitude and longitude is 17.3660°N and 78.4760°E. The state has an area of . It is bigger than Burkina Faso but smaller than Ecuador. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the South Indian zone. It was divided into Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in 2014, because of the Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act 2014. According to this Act, both states will have the same capital city Hyderabad, for a period of 10 years. The present Chief Minister of the state is Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of the YSR Party.

Andhra Pradesh has a gross domestic product (GDP) of 123,560 (in millions of US dollars). That makes it the third largest state in India in terms of GDP, after Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. Most of this money comes from agriculture. Andhra Pradesh is sometimes called the "Rice Bowl of India", as a very large amount of rice or paddy is grown in the coastal plains of the state. Recently the state is also involved in newer businesses like biotechnology and information technology.

Alberto Vargas

Joaquin Alberto Vargas y Chávez (9 February 1896 – 30 December 1982), better known as Alberto Vargas, was a Peruvian-born painter, best known for his pin-up paintings of beautiful women. In the 1930s he became famous for movie posters. In the 1940s and 1950s he painted for Esquire Magazine and in the 1960s and 1970s for Playboy.

A painting of Alberto's, "Varga Girl", was put on the Beatles - "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" album. She is pictured in the upper right-hand corner (next to Richard Menkin, the man in the hat).


George Lucas

George Walton Lucas Jr. (born May 14, 1944) is an American movie director, producer, and screenwriter most famous for the "Star Wars" and "Indiana Jones" movie series.

He also directed the movies "THX 1138" (1971) and "American Graffiti" (1973). He made the "Indiana Jones" series with Steven Spielberg. He is also an innovator for what he has done with special effects, and has founded companies that make not only movies, but also things like video games, theme park rides, and TV shows.

Lucas founded the Pixar animation studio and later sold it to Steve Jobs in 1986 for $10 million.

He has three children: Katie, Amanda and Jett Lucas (born 1993). Jett has had cameo appearances in "" and "" as Zett Jukassa. 

Lucas began dating Mellody Hobson, president of Ariel Investments and chair of DreamWorks Animation, in 2006. Lucas and Hobson announced their engagement in January 2013, and married on June 22, 2013 at Lucas's Skywalker Ranch in Marin County, California.

A George Lucas Cultural Arts Museum was to be built in San Francisco, California, but after talks failed, Lucas decided not to build the museum in San Francisco. 

Soon afterwards, the Chicago Tribune reported that Lucas wanted to build the museum in Chicago, Illinois. Lucas said: ""The city of Chicago has enthusiastically welcomed me and I consider Chicago to be my second home," Lucas said in a statement. "I look forward to working with community leaders to see if Chicago can become home to the Lucas Cultural Arts Museum. "" The office of Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel confirmed that talks between the two were ongoing. A potential lakefront site on Museum Campus in Chicago was proposed in May 2014. On June 24, 2014, the "Chicago Sun-Times" reported that Chicago was selected as the location, pending approval of the Chicago Plan Commission. The commission approved the idea and the museum will be built in Chicago.

Telugu

Telugu is a language spoken in the southern part of India and the Peninsular part of Malaysia. It is the official language of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. It is one of the twenty-two scheduled languages of the Republic of India. Telugu is the second most spoken language in India and 15th largest spoken language in the world. As it is one of the oldest languages in the world, Government of India gave it the status of a Classical language.

With 56 letters [16 vowels and 36 consonants, 4 removed], Telugu has more letters in its alphabet than any other language. There were letters for sounds Al, Aluu, which were later removed from the alphabet. Every Telugu word ends with an vowel.
అ ఆ ఇ ఈ ఉ ఊ ఋ ౠ ఎ ఏ ఐ ఒ ఓ ఔ అం అః

క ఖ గ ఘ ఙ 
చ ఛ జ ఝ ఞ
ట ఠ డ ఢ ణ
త థ ద ధ న
ప ఫ బ భ మ
య ర ల వ శ
ష స హ ళ క్ష ఱ

౧ ౨ ౩ ౪ ౫ ౬ ౭ ౮ ౯ ౧౦

PlayStation 3

The PlayStation 3 (PS3) is the third video game console made by Sony. It was released in Japan on November 11, 2006. It came out on November 17, 2006 in North America, and was released in Australia and Europe on 23 March 2007. It competed against the Microsoft Xbox 360 and Nintendo Wii consoles.

The PlayStation 3 was the first console to be able to play Blu-ray discs. The PS3 was, according to Sony, the most powerful console at the time. However, many people that create computer games have recently stated that both the PS3 and Xbox 360 are about equal. An upside is that to access the online mode to play and interact with other people is free unlike the Xbox in which must be paid for.

When the PlayStation 3 was released, there were two different models. One had a 20 gigabyte (GB) hard drive and cost $399. The other had a 60 gigabyte hard drive and cost $599. Sony stopped making the 20 gigabyte console in North America after the 60 gigabyte version "sold ten times as many" as the 20 gigabyte version.

In July 2007, Sony announced that they would cut the price of the PS3 to $500 in the United States, though still more expensive than its competitors. Sony also released a version of the console with an 80 gigabyte hard drive around this time.

In October, a version of the PlayStation 3 with a 40 gigabyte hard drive was introduced. This model could not play PlayStation 2 games, but games made for the original PlayStation could still be played. The price of the 60 gigabyte model was also further reduced. A white version of the 40 gigabyte model was released in Japan in November.

Since 2011, the PS3 was sold in a new, slimmer, and more efficient model with a 160 GB or 320 GB of hard drive memory.
The PS3 was discontinued in New Zealand on September 29, 2015, in Europe and Australia on March 31, 2016, in North America on October 31, 2016, and in Japan on May 29, 2017, though third-party games are still being made for the system.

PlayStation 2

The PlayStation 2 (PS2) is Sony's second video game console. It was released in March 2000. The one before this was PlayStation (or PS1). The next PlayStation is PlayStation 3 which was released in November 2006. The PlayStation 2 competed with the Dreamcast, the Nintendo GameCube and the Microsoft Xbox during its lifetime.

The controllers of the PlayStation 2 are similar to the Dual Analog controllers for the first PlayStation. Some games are online, such as "Call of Duty World at War Final Fronts," and a few connect with the PlayStation Portable (or PSP). The PS2 is very successful and games were still made for it after the PlayStation 3 was made. The PlayStation 2 is the world's best-selling console. It has sold around 159 million units since its launch in March 2000, and is fully compatible with PlayStation (PS1) games. 
Sony announced that they had discontinued the PlayStation 2 in Japan on December 28, 2012 and worldwide on January 4, 2013. The last two games for the system were "FIFA 14" and "Pro Evolution Soccer 2014" (released only in Europe) in late 2013 (a week before the PlayStation 4's release date). Both these games also had PS3 and PS4 versions. Online functionalities had ended on March 31, 2016. Repair for the system had ended in Japan on September 7, 2018.

The PSX was released in 2003. It was a video recorder that allowed you to play PlayStation 2 games. It had a built-in hard drive (up to 250 GB). It did not sell well, because it cost too much money, so it was not released outside of Japan. "" became the most sold game, with over 27.5 million copies sold.

Sony

Sony is a technology company, based in Japan, which makes many electric products. Among its most popular products is the video game console PlayStation, which was followed by PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4 and now the PlayStation 5. They also sold the Walkman invented by Andreas Pavel - a small music audio cassette player that could fit in one’s pocket - they later made Walkman systems that could play CDs, MiniDiscs or MP3s instead of tapes, and they often could receive radio too.

The company also makes music players, televisions, headsets, mobile phones (Sony Ericsson) and computers (named Sony Vaio), and game players (PlayStation).

It owns the American movie studios, Columbia Pictures and TriStar Pictures, through Sony Pictures.

Sony began its activity from a department store in Tokyo. At that time, 1946, the store was damaged by bombs. One engineer and one physicist invested a capital of about $1,600 to create a company which would include 20 employees. The name of the engineer was Masaru Ibuka and the name of the physicist was Akio Morita. People working in their new company repaired electrical equipment. Later they started creating their own products.

The company achieved success in 1954, when it received license that allowed producing transistors. Although transistors were already created in United States, they were not used in production of radios. Sony produced its first transistor radio in May of 1954.

From that period Sony started leading in the field of electronics. Its revolutionary devices included: Trinitron Color Television, created in 1968; color video cassette, produced in 1971 as well as the world's second home video system, created in 1975. Other revolutionary inventions of Sony include: 1979 – Walkman; 1981 – Electronic camera; 1982 – CD player; 1983 – Camcorder and the list continuous with many other devices. One of the most popular Sony products was Sony PlayStation, created in 1995. With its help Sony became the leader in videogames.

In 45 years Sony has grown from a small firm, employing 20 workers, to a multinational corporation, employing about 100,000 workers. The company created its American branch in 1960 and its UK branch in 1968. In recent years the company focused on leadership in software and hardware. Sony acquired, in 1988, CBS Records and formed Sony Music Entertainment. A year later the company bought Columbia Pictures to create Sony Pictures Entertainment.

Sony would later join forces with BMG to form "Sony BMG." BMG Music Publishing was sold to Universal in 2007. Sony bought all of BMG's record labels in 2008, ending the "BMG" name.


Xbox 360

The Xbox 360 is the second video game console released by Microsoft, after the Xbox. It was released on November 22, 2005, 1468 days after the first Xbox. The Xbox 360 competed against the Nintendo Wii and Sony PlayStation 3. All three are called next-generation or seventh generation consoles. The Xbox 360 was officially revealed on MTV on May 12, 2005. The Xbox One, the successor (it came after) to the Xbox 360, was announced on May 21, 2013. Even though the Xbox One was released on November 22, 2013, the Xbox 360 continued to be made until April 20, 2016. Games are no longer being made for the Xbox 360.

Before Microsoft revealed the console's real name, it was called the Xbox 2, Xbox NE, Xbox HD, Xbox FS, and other names. During the development, Microsoft, said it would launch the High-Definition era for video game consoles, promising visuals that would look better and much more real. The Xbox 360 uses standard DVDs to play games and other media.

The Xbox 360 was released in the United States and Canada on November 22, 2005 in Europe on December 2, 2005, and in Japan on December 10, 2005. It was later launched in Malaysia, Mexico, Colombia, South Korea, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Chile, India, Brazil, Poland, Czech Republic, and Russia. When the console was first released in North America, demand was more than the supplies and the console sold out at many stores. Many people sold the console on eBay for higher prices, and it was not until early 2006 that the Xbox 360 became more available in stores again.
The Xbox 360 was discontinued worldwide on 20 April 2016.


The Xbox 360 is a multimedia console. It can play music and videos streamed or downloaded from a computer. It can also play DVDs, as well as HD-DVDs if a HD-DVD Drive is connected. The Xbox 360 plays games on either a disc or on its hard drive. There are many games for Xbox 360.

The NXE (New Xbox Experience) update had many new features. One new feature is an avatar (profile picture) system. You can make the avatar look like you. The avatar is used in games and more. The menus were changed too. The NXE shows your friends and what they are doing. Another new feature is the ability to add people to an Xbox Live Party. People can talk online in a party. It does not matter if you are on the dashboard or playing another game. Up to seven of your friends or anyone else can join a party. Another option is to add friends to the party and game, which will invite them to both your game and party.

Xbox Live now has Facebook, Twitter, and Last.fm. You can use them on Xbox Live, but some features are different. 1080p High definition movies are also on Xbox Live. You can pay to download them.

The most recent update on the Xbox 360 was allowing users to input a USB memory device, allowing USB drives with memory over 1 GB to be used for storing data such as avatar items, or game saves, up to a maximum of 16 GB of data.

A number of accessories can be purchased for the Xbox 360. These include both wired and wireless controllers, custom faceplates that cover the front of the console, headsets for chatting while online, a webcam, a steering wheel for driving games and various other accessories.

Kinect is a major accessory that Microsoft made for the Xbox 360. It is a way to control games without a controller. Kinect was released in stores in late 2010. It won many awards, including "Fastest selling consumer electronics device" by the Guinness World Records. When it was first being made, it was called Project Natal.

The Xbox 360 Red Ring of death issue is very common on older consoles. When this happens, what is known as the Red Ring of Death (RRoD) appears: three of the four warning lights surrounding the power button on the console flash in red. The Red Ring of Death shows that there is a hardware problem, which usually means that the console no longer works. The white Arcade console breaks down a lot. On later models for example, the Xbox 360 S, these three lights show that there is an over-heating problem.


Xbox (console)

The Xbox is a video game console (a machine that plays video games and DVDS). It was made by Microsoft from November 2001 to October 2005. A person plays the games with a controller. The controllers were very large in the beginning, but were made smaller later. The Xbox video game console can play music, DVDs, and games. Microsoft discontinued the Xbox because they made the next version of the Xbox, the Xbox 360. The Xbox was first discontinued in 2006 in Japan, later in 2007 in Europe, then in 2009 in the USA. 

In 1998, four engineers from Microsoft's DirectX team, Kevin Bachus, Seamus Blackley, Ted Hase and DirectX team leader Otto Berkes, took apart some Dell laptop computers to construct a prototype Microsoft Windows-based video game console. The team hoped to create a console to compete with Sony's upcoming PlayStation 2.

During development, the original DirectXbox name was shortened to Xbox. Microsoft's marketing department did not like the Xbox name, and suggested many alternatives.

Xbox was the first video game console by Microsoft. It was a very large video game console, and it had a cost of $299.99 in the United States. It was launched one year after the PlayStation 2 and at the same time as the Nintendo GameCube. was the first very popular game for the Xbox.

GameCube

The Nintendo GameCube (also called GameCube, NGC, GCN, or GC for short) is the fourth video game home console made by Nintendo. Nintendo's previous console was called the Nintendo 64. Nintendo's next console is called the Nintendo Wii, released in 2006 with models released before November 2011 being backwards compatible with GameCube games. The last game for the console was "Madden NFL 08" (also released for the Wii and Nintendo DS), which was released on August 14, 2007. However, first-party development ended six months before that.

The GameCube also had many new features compared to other Nintendo video game consoles, and was the first Nintendo console to officially support Internet play (playing together without wires). It could also connect to the Game Boy Player to allow special features and play Game Boy, Game Boy Color, and Game Boy Advance games.

The console was released on September 14, 2001 in Japan, November 18, 2001 in North America, May 3, 2002 in Europe, and May 17, 2002 in Australia. The GameCube sold 21.74 million units worldwide. It was discontinued in early 2009 to focus production on the Wii and DS. The GameCube was also discontinued in Japan on October 28, 2007, Australia on December 3, 2007 and Europe on May 17, 2008.

Nintendo was originally the most popular video game company. However, in the late 1990s, the Sony PlayStation began to hurt Nintendo's business. For the first time, Nintendo's main console, which in this case was the Nintendo 64, was not the best-selling console. It sold over thirty million units, which was good, but only half of what Nintendo's earlier NES did. Nintendo was starting to fear, but they decided to try again. The GameCube was essentially a really beefed up Nintendo 64. It used good and detailed 3D models, and Nintendo decided to put new games and new series on the system, rather than sticking to the same old thing. It is obviously shaped like a cube, and has a handle on the back.

In the end, the Nintendo GameCube did not do what Nintendo hoped it would do. It ended up selling just 21 million units, worse than the Nintendo 64. The PS2 was simply the way to go at the time, simply because it could play DVDs and had a bigger game library. The GameCube sold poorly because it used special discs that no one else used and looked like a toy to many young adults.

The GameCube's controllers have two analog joysticks. In many games, one of them is used to control a character, while the other is used to control the camera, or some other secondary function. In addition to the analog sticks and the directional pad (D-pad), there are eight buttons: A, B, Y, X, L, R, Z, and Start.

Nintendo later released a wireless version of the controller, called the WaveBird. Instead of wires, it used RF signals to communicate with the console and was powered by standard AA batteries.

The Nintendo GameCube was known for its popular first games, including:


Notes

Fangame

Fangames are computer games created by fans based on popular video games. They are often made using C++, The Games Factory, Multimedia Fusion Express, and GameMaker. But now with free versions available of powerful game development tools available, some fangames are made in either Unity or Unreal Engine.


Wrocław

Wrocław (; , ; ) is the biggest city in Lower Silesian Voivodeship in the southwest part of Poland. The German name of the city is Breslau, and the Czech name is Vratislav. The Oder River goes through the city. There are also 4 other small rivers which connect with the Oder River in the territory of the city: Bystrzyca, Oława, Ślęza and Widawa. Before World War II there were 303 bridges in the city; now there are about 220. In Latin it is called "Vratislavia".

Wrocław is over 1000 years old. It was originally a Slavic town. During the Middle Ages it became a German city, but before that Wrocław was a Czech city. It was called Breslau for a long time. During the Second World War the city was badly damaged. About 70% of the buildings were damaged. Many of them were rebuilt. After the war, the city became Polish, and the German citizens were forced to leave. It has been called by its Polish name Wrocław ever since.

Johannes Brahms wrote his Academic Festival Overture to thank the University of Breslau in Wrocław. This was for an honorary doctorate he was awarded by the university.

Its population in 2004 was 638,000. There are 10 universities in the city. It is famous for its beautiful historical town square (Polish "rynek") and cathedral (large church).

In 1997 the Oder River flooded, causing a lot of damage.

10 people from Wrocław have won the Nobel Prize. They are:


1906

1906 (MCMVI) was a common year starting on Monday of the Gregorian calendar.





