Comoros


Comoros (officially called Union of the Comoros) is a small island nation in the Indian Ocean. It is between Madagascar and mainland Africa. The capital is Moroni on Grande Comore. The population (except for Mayotte) is about 798,000 people.

The Comoros Islands are in the Indian Ocean, between Mozambique and Madagascar. It is the southernmost member state of the Arab League.

There are 4 islands from west to east: Grande Cormore, Moheli, Anjouan and Mayotte. All the islands are of volcanic origin. Islam is the official religion of Comoros with over 90% of the population being Sunni Muslims.

Mayotte is also a territory that is claimed by Comoros but is under occupation by the French as an overseas territory. The other islands form the independent state of Comoros.

The country has a history with many "coup d'état" since independence in 1975. As of 2008, about half the people live below the international poverty line of US$1.25 a day.

Mount Karthala is the country's highest point. Karthala is an active shield volcano on Grand Cormore. It had a minor eruption in May 2006.

The Comoros is formed by Ngazidja (Grande Comore), Mwali (Mohéli) and Nzwani (Anjouan), the three major islands in the Comoros Archipelago. There are also many minor islets. The islands are officially known by their Comorian language names. International sources still use their French names (given in parentheses above). The capital and largest city is Moroni on Ngazidja.

At 2,034 km2 (785 sq mi), it is one of the smallest countries in the world. The interiors of the islands vary from steep mountains to low hills.

The climate is generally tropical and mild. The rainy season runs from December to April. It is called kashkazi/kaskazi, meaning north monsoon. The cool, dry season is from May to November. It is called kusi, meaning south monsoon.

The temperature reaches an average of in March, the hottest month. The average low is in the dry season. The islands are rarely subject to cyclones.

The islands have their own ecoregion, the Comoros forests.

The President of the Comoros is both head of state and head of government. The constitution was adopted on 23 December 2001. It was last amended in May 2009.

In November 1975, the Comoros became the 143rd member of the United Nations. The citizens of Mayotte chose to become French citizens and keep their island as a French territory.

There is a small standing army. This includes a 500-member police force and a 500-member defense force. A treaty with France provides navy protection for territorial waters.

The Comoros is one of the world's poorest countries. Agriculture is the leading sector of the economy. Agriculture includes fishing, hunting, and forestry.

The Comoros is the world's largest producer of ylang-ylang. It is a large producer of vanilla.


Oat

The oat ("Avena sativa") is a cereal grain. It is food for people and other animals, for example, chickens and horses. Oatmeal is made from oats. Oat straw is used as bedding for animals.

Porridge is made only from whole grain oats. It forms an excellent part of a balanced diet for the following reasons:

The wild ancestor of "Avena sativa" and the similar minor crop, "A. byzantina", is the hexaploid wild oat "A. sterilis". Science of DNA shows that the ancestor forms of "A. sterilis" grew in the Fertile Crescent of the Near East.

Domesticated oats appear later. They are also far from the Near East, in Bronze Age Europe. Oats are like rye. They are normally thought as a less important crop, i.e. coming from a weed out of the main cereals wheat and barley As these cereals spread into cooler, wetter places, this may have favored the oat weed. This quickly leads to its common use.

Oats are grown all over temperate places. They have a lower summer heat need and are able to survive more rain than other cereals like wheat, rye or barley. Oats are an annual plant, and can be planted either in autumn (for late summer harvest) or in the spring (for early autumn harvest).

Historical attitudes towards oats are very different. Oat bread was first made in England, where the first oat bread factory was made in 1899. In Scotland, are well liked, as a good part of the national diet. The English writer Samuel Johnson, famously wrote in "A Dictionary of the English Language" that the oat was "a grain, which in England is generally given to horses, but in Scotland supports the people." Which the Scottish quickly said back "and England has the best horses, and Scotland the best men."

Oats have many uses in food. Most of the time they are rolled or crushed into oatmeal, or ground into oat flour. Oatmeal is also eaten as porridge, but may also be used in many of baked goods, such as oat cakes, oatmeal cookies, and oat bread. Oats are also an substance used in many cold cereals, in particular muesli and granola. Without cooking, oats may also be taken as food.

Oats are also sometimes used in drinks. In Britain, it is used for making beer. Oatmeal stout is one of many beers using some oats. A cold, sweet drink made of ground oats and milk is a well liked drink in Latin America. 'Oatmeal caudle', made of ale and oatmeal with spices was a usual British drink and well-liked by Oliver Cromwell.

In Scotland a dish called "Sowans" was made by putting the husks from oats in water for a week so that the fine, dusty part of the meal remained at the bottom to be strained off, boiled and taken as food (Gauldie 1981). Oats are also widely used there as a thickener in soups, as barley or rice might be used in other countries.

Oats and its hulls are also commonly used as feed for horses - as whole or rolled oats or as part of food bits. Cattle are also fed oats, either whole, or ground into a flour using a mill.

Oat straw is prized by cattle and horse makers as bedding, because its soft, almost dust-free, and takes in liquid. The straw can also be used for making corn dollies. Tied in a cotton bag, oat straw was used to soften bath-water.

Things take out of oatscan also be used to make pain less sharp in the skin, as in skin lotions. It is the main substance in the Aveeno line of products.

Oats are mostly thought as "healthy" food. The finding of the healthy LDL cholesterol-lowering properties has led to more liking of oats as human food.

Oat is the only cereal having a globulin or legume-like protein, avenalin, as the major (80%) storage protein. Globulins can be taken up by weak salt water. The more common cereal proteins are gluten and zein. The minor protein of oat is avenin.

Oat protein is almost the same in quality as soy bean protein, which has been shown by the World Health Organization to be equal to meat, milk, and egg protein. The amount of protein of the hull-less oat kernel ranges from 12 to 24%, which is the highest among cereals.


Kapingamarangi

Kapingamarangi is an atoll in the Pacific Ocean. It is part of the Federated States of Micronesia. There are about 700 people living in Kapingamarangi. The inhabitants speak the Kapingamarangi language, a Polynesian dialect, but about 200 of them speak the Spanish language.

The Kapingamarangi people live a simple life. They believe that it's not what you have that is important. They help each other, neighbors, relatives, and everybody. They share what they have. The sea provides a significant source of food. And the people are very talented in doing all the different types of fishing.

Kiribati

Kiribati () is an island country in the Pacific Ocean. It has 33 atolls, groups of tiny islands. The country is near the equator. Part of it is in Micronesia and part is in Polynesia. Its capital is South Tarawa, on the Tarawa atoll.

Kiribati used to be called the Gilbert Islands. The name "Kiribati" comes from the way local people say "Gilberts". In 1892, the Gilbert Islands became a British protectorate with the Ellice Islands (now known as Tuvalu), together called Gilbert and Ellice Islands. Kiribati became an independent republic in 1979.

Tourism is an important industry. Most food comes from farming and fishing. People grow breadfruit, papayas, coconuts, sweet potatoes, and vegetables. The soil is not very good, but people use a special way of composting to make it better.

The official languages of Kiribati are English and Gilbertese.

As of 2020, about 119,000 people live in Kiribati. This is up from 103,000 in 2010, 84,000 in 2000, and 72,000 in 1990. Of these people, 90% live on the Gilbert Islands, 10% live on the Phoenix Islands, and only 41 people live on the Line Islands. The government says that 59% of people live in urban areas.

Almost all people in Kiribati have a religion. The largest religions are Catholicism (59%), Kiribati Uniting Church (21%), Kiribati Protestant Church (8%), Mormon (5%), Bahai (2%), and Seventh-day Adventist (2%). 

The first people came to Kiribati sometime between 3000 BC and 1300 AD. It is not known where they came from. Before this time, the islands may have been underwater.

European sailors saw the islands in the 1600s and 1700s. At this time, people only lived on the Gilbert Islands. (These islands were named after a British sailor, Thomas Gilbert.) In the 1800s, Europeans kidnapped many people and sold them as slaves. In 1886, the British Empire took the islands. The British tried to settle the Phoenix and Line Islands.

During World War II, Japan took the islands. During the Cold War, the US tested nuclear weapons there. In 1979, Kiribati became independent. Kiribati signed a "Treaty of Friendship and Territorial Sovereignty" (also called the "Treaty of Tarawa") with the United States in 1979. The USA gave up its claims to the islands of Canton, Enderbury, Hull, Birnie, Gardner, Phoenix, Sydney, McKean, Christmas, Caroline, Starbuck, Malden, Flint, and Vostok in that treaty.

Global warming and climate change are having big effects on Kiribati. The islands are very low above the water. The average height is 3 metres above sea level. Because of global warming, the sea level is rising. Land is sinking under the ocean. In the future, there may not be enough land to grow food. Salt water is also filling up aquifers, where people store fresh water. Climate change causes unusual droughts and storms. These can make farming much harder.

In 2012, the government purchased land on Fiji. This way, people from Kiribati could move there if needed.

Bisexuality

Bisexuality is a sexual orientation. Bisexual "(sometimes shortened to bi)" people are romantically or sexually attracted to both men and women. It can also mean attraction to more than one gender. Sometimes it is talked about as having romantic or sexual attraction to someone regardless of their sex or gender identity. This is also known as "pansexuality". Some bisexual people love men and women the same and some people love one more than the other. Some bisexual people have preferences to one or more sexes, however some may not. A slang expression for bisexuality is "to swing both ways." 

In 1948, Alfred Kinsey published the Kinsey scale. The Kinsey scale shows that sexuality is a continuum. This means it moves little by little from heterosexuality to homosexuality. On the Kinsey scale, a "0" is someone who is only heterosexual. A "6" is someone who is only homosexual. Someone who is equally homosexual and heterosexual (bisexual) is a "3".
In biology, bisexual can define an organism that has both male and female organs. This mostly refers to plants.

Bisexuality is romantic or sexual attraction to both males and females, or to more than one gender. Attraction can be different for bisexuals. This can be sexual, romantic, emotional, or physical attraction. Some sources say that bisexuality means romantic or sexual attraction to all gender identities or sexual orientations. Some sources say that it is romantic or sexual attraction to a person no matter what that person's sex or gender is. This would make it the same as pansexuality. Pansexuality ignores or rejects the gender binary (the idea that there is two genders and related sexual orientations). This is because pansexuals are open to relationships with people who do not identify as men or women. Sometimes the phrase "bisexual umbrella" or "bisexual community" is used to talk about any non-monosexual behaviors, attractions, and identities. The phrase "bisexual community", or the word "plurisexuality", includes people who identify as bisexual, pansexual, omnisexual, biromantic, polysexual, or sexually fluid.

A common symbol of the bisexual community is the bisexual flag. This flag has a deep pink stripe at the top for homosexuality, a dark blue stripe for heterosexuality, and a purple stripe in the middle for bisexuality. The purple stripe is a mix of the blue and pink colors, representing a mix of homosexuality and heterosexuality. 

Another symbol of bisexuality is the biangles. The biangles are a pair of overlapping pink and blue triangles. These triangles form purple where they cross.



