Comedian


A comedian is a person who tells jokes, or acts in comedies. Some people use the French loanword "comedienne" to refer to female comedians. A comedian can also be called a comic or a comic actor.

Turin

Turin ( , ; ; , then "Taurinum") is a major industrial city on the west bank of the Po river in Piedmont, northwest Italy. Over a 900,000 people live in it. Turin is the fourth largest city in Italy, after Rome, Milan and Naples. Turin is the capital of Piedmont. Fiat's first car factory was in Turin. The city was the host of the 2006 Winter Olympics. In Turin there are two major rivers the Po and the Dora, and two minor rivers the Stura and the Sangone.

Turin was the first capital of Italy in 1861. It had previously been the capital of the Kingdom of Sardinia and before that it was the capital of the Duchy of Savoy. Filippo Juvarra designed many churches and palaces in the city. 

Hobart

Hobart (Palawa Kani: "Nipaluna") is a city in Australia. It is the capital city of the state of Tasmania, and it has about 200,000 people. It is on the western shore of the Derwent River, although some of its suburbs are on the eastern shore. In the western suburbs of Hobart is Kunyani/Mount Wellington.

Hobart was founded in 1803 as a penal colony. Today it is a busy seaport, and is the home port of Antarctic expeditions. Tourist attractions include Salamanca Markets, the Cadbury chocolate factory and the Cascade Brewery.

Hobart has an oceanic climate ("Cfb" in the Koeppen climate classification).

New Testament

The New Testament is part of the Christian Bible, and the most important religious writing of Christianity. It tells the story of Jesus Christ, his followers, and the beginnings of Christianity. It was written in Koine Greek.

The New Testament is made up of different parts. In total, there are 27 texts in the New Testament. The Eastern Orthodox Church, the Roman Catholic Church and the Protestant Churches have the same texts, but their arrangement varies; the Syriac Churches and the Ethiopian Churches have different versions. The Syriac Churches do not put Peter 2, John 2 and 3, Jude and the Revelations in the New Testament. The Ethiopian Churches do not have a common canon.

Four of the Books of the New Testament are the Gospels. Most of the others are Epistles.

Each of the Gospels tells the story of Jesus Christ, or the young Messiah, who Christians believe is the "Son of God who is born to save the world from sin". Each of the Gospels tell this same story, with a little more or less detail from the other. The other books tell about the history of the church and explain the Christian faith through letters written to persons and groups that have believed in Jesus 

The traditional author is listed after each entry.


Pauline epistles, the 13 or 14 letters believed to be written by Saint Paul the Apostle. They are named for the person or group to which they were sent. 

General epistles are other letters which are named for the person traditionally believed to have written them. 




