Sen no Rikyu


Sen no Rikyu (, 1522–1591) made important and lasting changes to the Japanese tea ceremony. He was a follower of Toyotomi Hideyoshi. Besides the tea ceremony, Rikyu practiced ikebana and wrote poetry. He also studied zen.

Oscar Wilde

Oscar Fingal O'Flahertie Wills Wilde (16 October 1854 – 30 November 1900) was an Irish writer, poet and playwright. He wrote "The Picture of Dorian Gray", and the plays "Salomé", "The Importance of Being Earnest", "An Ideal Husband", and "Lady Windermere's Fan".

Wilde was bisexual. He had a wife and two children. He had an affair with a younger man named Lord Alfred Douglas. This affair ruined his life.

Wilde was born in Ireland in 1854. He went to school at Trinity College in Dublin. Then he went the Magdalen College (part of Oxford University.) In London, he worked as a journalist for four years. 

He was very well known in his time. This was because he dressed well and was very good at conversation. He was also well known because he wrote a novel called "The Picture of Dorian Gray." He also wrote plays. In 1891, he wrote a play called "Salomé." He wrote it in French while living in Paris. No one could perform it in England, because there were characters from the Bible in it. This did not discourage him. He then wrote four comedic plays in the early 1890s. He was one of the most successful playwrights of the time. His masterpiece was the play called "The Importance of Being Earnest."

When he was very famous, he sued his lover's father for libel (lying about someone in print). There were many trials. In the end, the court sentenced Wilde to two years of work in Reading Gaol (jail). The crime was gross indecency (sexual contact with other men). After he went to prison, his wife went to Switzerland with their children. She changed their last names to Holland.

While he was in prison, he wrote a long letter called "De Profundis". "De Profundis" was about his experiences during the trials. It was very sad compared to his earlier work.

When he got out of prison, he went to France. He never went back to the British Isles. In France, he wrote "The Ballad of Reading Gaol," which was a poem about prison. It was his last work.

In Paris, he lived in a hotel. He did not have very much money, or very many friends. He died of cerebral meningitis (swelling in his brain) in Paris. He was forty-six. Before he died, he said, "My wallpaper and I are fighting a duel to the death. One of us has got to go".

Wilde was in a romantic relationship with Lord Alfred Douglas. Douglas was the son of the Marquess of Queensberry. Queensberry argued a lot with his son. He spoke to Wilde and Douglas several times about their relationship. In June of 1894, Queensberry visited Wilde with no warning. Queensberry threatened to beat up Wilde if he saw Wilde with his son in a restaurant again.

The Marquess of Queensberry left Wilde a calling card on February 18, 1895. On the card he wrote: "For Oscar Wilde, posing as a sodomite".

Sodomy (men having sex with other men) was a crime. This note accused Wilde of having committed a crime. Because of this, Wilde sued him for libel (lying about someone else in print). His friends thought this was a bad idea, but Douglas encouraged him.

In the trial, Queensberry only had to prove that Wilde had posed as a sodomite. But he also presented evidence that suggested Wilde had committed sexual acts with male prostitues. On the advice of his lawyer, Wilde withdrew his case. The court decided Queensberry was not guilty. They thought Queensberry was telling the truth when he wrote that Wilde was posing as a sodomite.

Because of the Libel Act of 1843, Wilde had to pay Queensberry's lawyers. After this, Wilde was declared bankrupt.

Wilde left court. The government wanted to arrest him for sodomy and gross indecency. His friends told him to try to flee to France, but his mother said he should stay in England. The government put him in prison before his trial. Douglas visited him daily, until Wilde told him to go to Paris to avoid punishment.

Wilde's trial began on April 26, 1895. He pled not guilty. During the trial, he spoke about "the love that dare not speak its name". He described it as strong love between an older and a younger man. He said it was misunderstood and that it was the reason he was on trial. Saying these things was not helpful, because it convinced the jury that he had sex with men. 

The jury could not decide what to do. His lawyer got the court to agree on a bail. Reverend Stewart Headlam paid his bail, so he could leave prison. Wilde went into hiding at his friends' house. 

The lawyer for the government wanted to give up the case, but many people knew about it. Another government lawyer thought it was too well known to give up. Wilde went to court again. The court sentenced him to (made him do) two years of work in prison. They also sentenced another man, named Alfred Taylor. The judge thought it was not harsh enough, but it was illegal to keep him in prison for longer. Wilde tried to respond to the judge, but others in the courtroom yelled "Shame", so that no one could hear him.


Prose


U2

U2 are an Irish rock band. The four members of the band are lead singer Bono (born "Paul David Hewson"), lead guitarist The Edge (born "David Howell Evans"), bassist Adam Clayton, and drummer Larry Mullen Jr. and formerly dik Evans U2 are a very popular band all over the world and have been since the 1980s. They have sold more than 170 million albums and have won 22 Grammy Awards. This is more than any other rock band.

U2 formed in Dublin in 1976, when none of the members were very good musicians. However, they got better as they got older. They were more popular for playing live shows than for releasing albums. This changed with their hit record in 1987, "The Joshua Tree". In 1991, U2 released a new album called "Achtung Baby". This album sounded very different from their other albums because it was inspired by alternative rock and dance music. "Achtung Baby" and its worldwide Zoo TV Tour were both very popular. U2 experimented for the rest of the 1990s, making two other very different albums, "Zooropa" and "Pop". 

In the 21st century, U2 returned to a more traditional sound, but they continue to be very popular and successful. They are involved in charities and helping people with groups such as Amnesty International, Make Poverty History, the ONE Campaign, Live Aid, Live 8, Bono's DATA (Debt, AIDS, Trade in Africa) campaign, and Music Rising.

In 2014, the group won a Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song and was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Song for their song "Ordinary Love" which was used in the movie "".

U2 was formed in the city of Dublin, Ireland on September 25, 1976. It was founded by 14-year-old drummer Larry Mullen Jr. He posted a note on his school's notice board, asking for musicians to create a new band. There were seven teenage boys who went to their first practice. At first, the band called themselves "Feedback" but later changed their name to "The Hype". The band became smaller over time, eventually becoming just four people, and they finally changed their name to "U2" once Bono, The Edge, Clayton, and Mullen were left.

U2's influences include Brian Eno, Joy Division, Television, Lou Reed, Bob Dylan, Roxy Music, The Beatles, The Undertones, Roy Obison, Marc Bolan, David Bowie, Sex Pistols, The Clash, The Who, Thin Lizzy, Patti Smith, The Jam, The Rolling Stones, Van Morrison and Lee Clayton.



