Paul Simon


Paul Simon (born October 13, 1941) is an American musician and songwriter. He is of Jewish descent and became famous as a member of Simon and Garfunkel, with his friend, Art Garfunkel. He wrote their songs. The two went their separate ways in the early 1970s and since then Simon has become a successful solo artist.

Paul Simon had his first success in 1958 when his song "Hey Schoolgirl" got to Number 49 on the US charts. He was performing with his friend Art Garfunkel in an act called "Tom and Jerry". His next success was in 1965 with "Sounds of Silence" which went to Number 1. This was also performed with Garfunkel under the name "Simon and Garfunkel.

Some of Simon's most famous songs include "Slip Sliding Away", "American Tune", "Late in the Evening", "Still Crazy After All These Years", "Me and Julio Down By the School Yard" and "50 Ways to Leave Your Lover". His 1986 album "Graceland" is very well-known. He is still producing music. His newest album is called "Surprise".

Simon has received three honorary doctorates in music, including one from Yale University and one from Berklee College of Music. In 2006, "Time" said that he was one of the 100 "people who shape our world".


Shirley Jones

Shirley Jones (b. March 31, 1934) is an American and singer and actress. She appeared in movie musicals, singing a leading role in movies such as "Oklahoma!", "The Music Man", and "Carousel". 

Jones had a supporting role in the movie "Elmer Gantry", starring actor Burt Lancaster. She is also famous for her role as Shirley Partridge on the television series "The Partridge Family".

She was married to Jack Cassidy, from 1956 to 1975, and had three sons with him, Shaun, Patrick, and Ryan. Her stepson is David Cassidy who co-starred with her on "The Partridge Family". After she divorced Cassidy she married Marty Ingels on November 13, 1977. Their marriage would last until Ingels' death in October 2015.


DeForest Kelley

Jackson DeForest Kelley (January 20, 1920 – June 11, 1999) was an American actor. 

Kelley is most famous for his role as Dr. Leonard McCoy of the USS "Enterprise" in the television series "Star Trek" and the six movies that followed.

Also known as well as an older Admiral Dr. Leonard McCoy, Star Fleet Surgeon General Emeritus, in the "" television pilot, "Encounter at Farpoint".


Scott Bakula

Scott Bakula (October 9, 1954) is an American actor. He is best known for his roles on the television shows, "Quantum Leap" and "".



