Best Violin for Beginners 


Train station

A train station or railway station (also called a railroad station, rail station, or depot) is a place where passengers of rail transport can get on and off trains and/or goods may be loaded or unloaded. 

Early stations were usually built to handle passengers and goods. Today, goods are usually only unloaded at big stations. Stations are next to a railway line, or they are the terminus for a route. Usually there are platforms to let passengers get on and off the train easily and safely. Many stations have things such as shelters, ticket sales and benches.

The busiest railway station in the world is Shinjuku Station in Tokyo, Japan. The largest station is Nagoya Station in Nagoya, Japan. The busiest station in Europe is Clapham Junction in south London in the United Kingdom. At peak times, there is one train every 13 seconds there.

Railway stations usually have either ticket booths, or ticket machines. Ticket sales can also be together with an information desk or a shop. Many stations have a shop or a kiosk.

Bigger stations often have fast-food or restaurants. In some countries these stations also have a bar, or a pub. Other station facilities are: toilets, luggage rooms, lost-and-found (lost property office), timetables, trolleys, waiting rooms, taxi ranks and bus stops.

Railway track

A railway track or railway line is a set of two parallel rows of long pieces of steel. They are used by trains to transport people and things from one place to another. (In America, people say railroad as well as railway). Often, there is more than one set of tracks on the railway line. For example, trains go east on one track and west on the other one.

The rails are supported by cross pieces set at regular intervals (called sleepers or ties), which spread the high pressure load imposed by the train wheels into the ground. They also maintain the rails at a fixed distance apart (called the gauge). Ties are usually made from either wood or concrete. These often rest on ballast, which is a name for very small pieces of broken up rock that are packed together and keep the railway tracks in place. Tracks are often made better by ballast tampers.

The upper surfaces of the rails are inclined slightly towards each other, typically on a slope of 1/20, and the rims of the train wheels are angled in the same way ("coning"). This helps guide the vehicles of the train along the track. Each wheel also has a flange, which sticks out from one edge all the way around. This makes sure the train does not "derail" (come off the track) and helps guide the train on sharp curves.

Rail transport

Rail transport is the movement of passengers and goods using wheeled vehicles called trains, made to run on railway tracks. In most countries, this transportation method helps trade and economic growth. Railways (British English) or railroads (American English) provide an energy-efficient way to transport material over land. The railway tracks are a large part of the system and provide smooth and hard surfaces on which the wheels of the train roll with a little friction. Also, the track spreads the weight of the train which means larger amounts can be carried than with trucks (all types: box truck, concrete mixer truck, cutaway van chassis, water tanker truck, oil tanker truck, milk tanker truck, dropside truck, fire engine truck, container truck, tow truck, dual drive/steer truck, logging truck, garbage truck, stakebed truck, dual drive/steer truck, vacuum truck, platform truck, bucket truck, flatbed truck, sprinkler truck, food truck, semi-trailer truck (tractor), ice cream truck, and dump truck) on roads.

Rail transport started to be important in the Industrial Revolution. In France the areas that adopted steam-power quicker in the mid-1800s got more jobs (122% more) and higher wages than other areas which were slower. 

The first railroads were built in England.

Rolling stock on rails generally encounters lower frictional resistance than rubber-tyred road vehicles, allowing rail cars to be coupled into longer trains. Power is usually provided by diesel or electrical locomotives. While railway transport is capital-intensive and less flexible than road transport, it can carry heavy loads of passengers and cargo with greater energy efficiency and safety.

Modern rail transport began with the invention of the steam locomotive in Great Britain around 1800. The first passenger railway, the Stockton and Darlington Railway, opened in 1825. The quick spread of railways throughout Europe and North America, following the 1830 opening of the first intercity connection in England, between Liverpool and Manchester, was a key part of the Industrial Revolution. Rail transport lowered shipping costs compared to water transport, leading to "national markets" in which prices varied less from city to city. 

In the 1880s, the spread of buses led to a railway electrification began with tramways and rapid transit systems. Starting in the 1940s, steam locomotives were replaced by diesel locomotives. The first high-speed railway system was introduced in Japan in 1964, and high-speed rail lines now connect many cities in Europe, East Asia, and the eastern United States. Following some decline due to competition from cars and fixed-wing aircrafts, rail transport has had a revival in recent decades due to road congestion and rising fuel prices, as well as governments investing in rail as a means of reducing CO emissions. Attempts to reduce airplane travel by improving long distance railway in Europe have found problems, especially when crossing borders.


Waterway

A waterway is any body of water that can be used for transportation by people in boats. These include rivers, lakes, oceans, and canals.

They must be wide and deep enough for the boats, and either have no waterfalls and rapids, or have ways for boats to get around them, such as locks.

Terminus

Terminus is a Latin word that literally means "Boundary stone" but can refer to:

Junction

A junction is any place where linear things, especially roads and railway tracks, meet. 

A Road junction is a place where roads meet. These are known as 'T' junctions and 'X' junctions.

A railway junction is a place where two railway tracks join. The shape of a junction looks like 
Sometimes the trains just cross and keep going straight ahead to their destination. Sometimes they turn onto the other track to reach the planned destination. Moveable portions of track make this possible. 

Station

Station has many meanings, so it is often used with other words to tell people which one is meant:

In transport:

In communications:

Other buildings:

Other uses:

1816

1816 (MDCCCXVI) was a leap year starting on Monday in the Gregorian calendar. In the Julian calendar, it was also a leap year starting on Saturday.




