Arkansas


Arkansas, nicknamed the "Land of Opportunity" or "The Natural State", is a state in the United States of America. Its capital and largest city is Little Rock. The 2020 census counted 3,013,756 people living in Arkansas.

Arkansas became the 25th state to enter the Union in 1836. During the American Civil War, Arkansas was one of the Confederate states, however, it was the second state to be put back in to the U.S. in the Reconstruction. Native Americans first settled in the state before the arrival of Europeans. African American slaves were imported to Arkansas for slavery.

Arkansas has many rivers, lakes, and reservoirs. Arkansas has few natural lakes but many reservoirs such as Bull Shoals Lake, Lake Ouachita, Greers Ferry Lake, Millwood Lake, Beaver Lake, Norfork Lake, DeGray Lake, and Lake Conway.

Arkansas is home to many caves, such as Blanchard Springs Caverns. More than 43,000 Native American living, hunting and tool making sites have been catalogued by the State Archeologist. Arkansas is currently the only U.S. state in which diamonds are mined. This is done by members of the public with primitive digging tools for a small daily fee, not by commercial interests.

Arkansas is home to a bunch of wood Areas adding around . These areas are set for outdoor playing and are open to hunting, fishing, hiking, and camping. No vehicles are able to drive in these areas.

Arkansas, like most other Southern states, is part of the Bible Belt. It is mostly Protestant. The largest denominations by number of followers in 2000 were the Southern Baptist Convention with 665,307; the United Methodist Church with 179,383; the Roman Catholic Church with 115,967; and the American Baptist Association with 115,916.

Education in Arkansas has been an issue. Part of the problem has been low teacher salaries and small budgets for spending on students. Other problems have been not wanting to integrate, and poor school facilities.

Arkansas has two university systems: Arkansas State University System and University of Arkansas System. Some other public institutions are Arkansas Tech University, Henderson State University, Southern Arkansas University, and University of Central Arkansas. It is also home to 11 private colleges and universities. One of them being Hendrix College, one of the nation's top 100 liberal arts colleges, according to U.S. News & World Report.

Arkansas is liked for its bauxite mines. Arkansas was also the first U.S. state where diamonds were found. Liked Arkansans are Bill Clinton, who was governor of Arkansas before he became the President of the United States, Sam Walton, the ceo of Wal-Mart, Johnny Cash, a famous guitar player known as "The Man In Black", and Rodger Bumpass, Who is the voice Squidward Tentacles on the Nickelodeon show SpongeBob SquarePants.

Arkansas is home to many areas protected by the National Park System. These include:


Robert Englund

Robert Englund (born June 6, 1949 in Glendale, California) is an American actor. He is most famous for playing Freddy Krueger in the "A Nightmare on Elm Street" movies.


Henry IV of France

Henry IV (13 December 1553 – 14 May 1610), "Henri-Quatre", was King of France from 1589 to 1610 and King of Navarre from 1572 to 1610. He was part of the Capetian dynasty and the first king of the Bourbon family in France.

Henry IV was born in Pau. He was the son of Antoine de Bourbon and Jeanne of Navarre. He was baptised in a Catholic ceremony, but as he grew up, his mother led him to become a Protestant. On 18 August 1572, Henry married Margaret of Valois. She was the sister of Charles IX. He became the King of Navarre in the same year.

Since 1562, there had been a a series of wars in France which were mostly fought between Catholics and Protestants, and sometimes with more than one groups of Catholics fighting each other. In 1584, Henry became the heir to the throne of France. Most people in France were Catholics, and many of them did not want a Protestant king. This led to the War of the Three Henrys between Henry of Navarre, the existing Catholic king Henry III and Catholic League leader Henry, Duke of Guise. Although both Henry III and Guise were Catholics, they did not get on with each other. Guise was murdered in 1588 and Henry III was murdered the following year.

Henry of Navarre could now be crowned King of France, but he still faced opposition from the Catholic League. After four years of fighting, he decided to convert to being Catholic. He supposedly said "Paris is well worth a Mass." After this, the opposition to Henry died down. In 1598, Henry made the Edict of Nantes. This law allowed people in France to be Protestant, even though most people were Catholic. In Europe at the time, a policy like this was unusual. Most countries forced people to be either Catholic or Protestant. However, the Edict did not make the Protestants fully equal.

Henry's children were Louis XIII and Henrietta Maria of France, who married Charles I and became the Queen of England. He was a friend of Michel of Montaigne.

During his reign, he built the Grande Galerie onto the Louvre. Two landmarks in Paris were started during his reign: the Pont Neuf and the Place des Vosges.

Henry was murdered by a Catholic fanatic on a street in Paris on 14 May 1610.

At first, many people in France did not want Henry to be king, because he was a Protestant. Although this mostly ended once he joined the Catholic Church, some Catholics called him a liar, while some Protestants called him a traitor. It was only after his death that he became known as "Good King Henry" (in French, "le bon roi Henri") and one of France's most popular kings. During the early years of the French Revolution, Henry IV was celebrated as an example of what a king should be. He was also celebrated during the Bourbon Restoration.

Henry IV is remembered for being the king who ended the French Wars of Religion, and for his policy of allowing more than one church in his country, which was unusual in those days. He was also known for trying to make sure that poor people had enough to eat. He once said he wished that there could be "a chicken in every pot on a Sunday."

In 2010 scientists found part of his embalmed head and used forensic tests to prove that it was his. It had been stolen from the tombs of the French kings and queens in Saint Denis in 1793 at the time of the French Revolution.

Margaret of Valois

Margaret of Valois (May 14, 1553 – May 27, 1615) was a Princess of France and a member of the house of Valois.

Her father was Henry II of France and her mother was Catherine of Medici. She was also the sister of Francis II of France, Charles IX of France and Henry III of France. Margaret was then married to Henry IV of France.

The author Alexandre Dumas, père wrote a book about Margaret called "Queen Margot".

Queen Margot

Queen Margot is a book written in 1845 by Alexandre Dumas, père. It is a story about Margaret of Valois and Henry IV of France. The same writer wrote many other books including "The Man in the Iron Mask", "The Count of Monte Cristo" and "The Three Musketeers".

Henrietta Maria of France

Henrietta Maria of France (November 25, 1609 - September 10, 1669) was the youngest daughter of Henry IV of France and Marie de' Medici. She was born in the Louvre Palace in Paris on November 25, 1609. She was a Roman Catholic.

Henrietta Maria married Charles I and became the Queen of England.

Madonna

Madonna can mean:


Madonna (entertainer)

Madonna Louise Ciccone (born August 16, 1958), is an American singer-songwriter, dancer, actress, author, director, philanthropist, businesswoman, record producer, film director, and humanitarian. Madonna was born in Bay City, Michigan, but she moved to New York City in 1977 to pursue a career in modern dance.

During her career, she has sold over 400 million records worldwide and is the top-selling female artist of all time. Some of her most famous albums are "Like a Virgin", "True Blue", "Like a Prayer", "Ray of Light" and "Confessions On a Dance-Floor". She has won seven Grammy awards. Madonna is considered the "Queen Of Pop" due to her extremely successful career on music and for being the most selling female singer in history. She has been in many movies; she received positive reviews for her role in "Desperately Seeking Susan" (1985). Her later movies received mixed reviews. She received critical acclaim and a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in Motion Picture Musical or Comedy for "Evita" (1996). She got harsh feedback for other performances.

Madonna Louise Ciccone was born at Mercy Hospital in Bay City, Michigan, She is third child and first daughter from Madonna Louise (née Fortin) and Silvio Anthony "Tony" Ciccone, She had four brothers and two sister by her family, Her name Madonna is from her mother side that, She is from Roman Catholic family by parents, She is Confirmation on 1966, Finally Her mother is died by Breast cancer in December 1963, His father remarried to housekeeper Joan Gustafson, They have two children Jennifer and Mario, Madonna is had one half-sister and one half-brother by her family. Madonna study at St. Frederick's and St. Andrew's Catholic Elementary Schools, and West Middle School and Rochester Adams High School, where she became a straight-A student and a member of the cheerleading squad, She is study University of Michigan and then She studied over the summer at the American Dance Festival in Durham, North Carolina.

After the release of some dance hits she released her first album, "Madonna", in 1983. The album was a great success. Her next album, "Like a Virgin" (1984), sold over 6 million copies in the United States only and overall 10 million copies worldwide. Her album "True Blue" has sold 25 million copies. Her album "Like a Prayer" caused controversy, as it had to do with Christianity but the album sold over 15 million records worldwide. During the 1980s, Madonna was a huge fashion icon and was an idol for millions of girls and boys. Songs like "Like a Virgin", "Material Girl", "Into the Groove", "Papa Don't Preach", "Holiday", "Lucky Star", "La Isla Bonita", and "Like a Prayer" are believed to be classics.

In 1990, she released her best selling greatest-hits album "The Immaculate Collection" which sold over 30 million copies, and this album became the most-sold greatest-hits album in music history. She released a book of naked pictures called "SEX" in that year. Her album "Erotica" was a big hit but was criticized by some, the album sold 5 million copies. Madonna starred in the film "A League of Their Own", alongside American actor Tom Hanks and comedienne Rosie O'Donnell. In 1994, her album "Bedtime Stories" was released. She also performed in the movie "Evita", which was very successful and released a soundtrack album of the same name. She also received the Golden Globe for Best Actress. Her 1998 album "Ray of Light" is considered to be a masterpiece and sold over 18 million copies worldwide. Some of her most famous and classic songs of the '90s are "Vogue", "This Used to Be My Playground", "Erotica", "Take a Bow", "Don't Cry for Me Argentina", "You Must Love Me", "Frozen" and "Ray of Light".

In 2000, her album "Music" sold over 15 million copies worldwide, helped by the global hit song of the same name. "Music" became her twelfth number-one song on the "Billboard" Hot 100. She also released a successful greatest hits album titled "GHV2". Madonna acted in the film "The Next Best Thing", along with "Swept Away", which got bad reviews. On October 22, 2002, a single called "Die Another Day" was released. The music video for the single was the second most expensive music video ever to make. The single reached number one in several countries. Her 2003 album, "American Life," reached #1 in many countries but it was criticized by some, as it was against war in Iraq and sold 5 million copies. In 2005, her album "Confessions on a Dance Floor", helped by the singles "Hung Up" and "Sorry" that reached #1 in 45 countries, sold 12 million copies. In 2008 she released her album "Hard Candy" which reached #1 in almost every country in the world and has sold over 4 million copies worldwide. The first single from the album, "4 Minutes", had Justin Timberlake singing in it.

In 2011, "W.E.", the second movie directed by Madonna, was released. It got bad reviews.

Madonna performed at the 46th Super Bowl on February 5, 2012. She released her twelfth album, "MDNA", in April of that year. The album debuted at number one on the US "Billboard" 200 album chart. Trinidadian-born American rapper Nicki Minaj was featured on the lead single, "Give Me All Your Luvin"', which reached the top ten in the United States and reached number one in Canada. Minaj also raps on the album track "I Don't Give A".

Madonna's thirteenth studio album, "Rebel Heart", was released in March 2015. It featured the singles "Living For Love" and "Bitch I'm Madonna" featuring frequent collaborator Nicki Minaj. The Rebel Heart World Tour made $169.8 million.

Her fourteenth studio album, "Madame X", was released on June 14, 2019, and became her ninth number-one album in the US. It featured collaborations with Maluma, Quavo, Swae Lee & Anitta. It has sold 90,000 copies in the US so far. She will be going on a theatre-only tour to promote it.

Her tours during the 80's ("Who's That Girl Tour," "Blond Ambition Tour," etc.) were very successful. Her 1993 "The Girlie Show Tour" was very controversial—some thought of it as bad—but was a great success. The "Drowned World Tour" and the "Re-Invention World Tour" were the most successful tours of their years. The "Confessions Tour" was very successful and the "Sticky & Sweet Tour," with over $408 million earned, became the most successful tour of all time for a solo artist.

Madonna has had 12 number-one songs on the "Billboard" Hot 100. They are:
Madonna is the third of six siblings and was named after her mother, Madonna Fortin, who died of breast cancer when Madonna was only five years old.

Both Madonna's marriages ended in divorce. She was married to Sean Penn from 1985 until 1989 and to Guy Ritchie from 2000 to 2008. She has a daughter, Lourdes (born 1996), and son, Rocco (born 2000). She adopted a Malawian son, David Banda, and a daughter, Mercy.

In February 2017, it was announced that she had adopted two more Malawian children, twin girls Esther and Stella.


Tortilla

A tortilla is a flat bread used in Mexican cuisine. They are used in burritos, enchiladas, and mainly as a wrap called taco. They are normally made of maize (corn), but can also be made of wheat or potatoes.

In Spanish cuisine, tortillas are very different; they are closer to an omelette based on potatoes, usually mixed with other ingredients like onions, pork sausages or other vegetables; they can be baked or cooked in a frying pan. Also many Latin-American countries call omelettes tortillas, and the ingredients can be different in every country, using their local ingredients and by choice of the chef.
In Armenian cuisine a tortilla is known as lavash which is a type of flat bread.

Bit

Bit can have different meanings:

EastEnders

EastEnders is a British drama season TV soap opera in the United Kingdom. It has been running since February 1985, and has had over 5700 episodes. The programme is a rival of "Coronation Street" and "Emmerdale". It is shown on BBC One.

The programme is in a pretend area of East London, called Walford. It is filmed in Elstree, a village in Borehamwood. Like "Coronation Street", most action is around a local pub. The pub in "EastEnders" is called The Queen Vic.

There are many story lines, including drug abuse, rape, racism, domestic violence, murder, kidnapping, prostitution, theft, senile dementia, arson, and runaway children.

Arguments between members of one family, or between different families, are often in the storyline.

It has won six BAFTA awards.


Genetic

Genetic can refer to:

Philip II of Spain

Philip II of Spain (21 May 1527 – 13 September 1598) was, starting in 1556, king of Spain, and Burgundy, Netherlands, Naples, Sicily, and Spanish America. He was born in Valladolid and was the only son of Holy Roman Emperor Charles V and his wife to live until he was an adult. He was strongly Catholic.

His rule was filled with troubles since his war against the Dutch Republic was expensive and unsuccessful, and his Spanish Armada was defeated and destroyed, which caused him to be harsh to his subjects.

For the first seven years of his life, Philip moved between different castles with his mother. In 1534 he moved into a private house in Salamanca to start his schooling. His mother died in 1539 and he took her body to Granada, where his great-grandparents Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella were buried. He left Spain in 1547 and moved to the Netherlands, where his father's family was from. His father wanted him to become more European but the people there thought he was too cold and serious.


Phillip II obtained most of his titles from his parents. He also obtained some other titles later, like King of Portugal.

In Castile he was: King of Castile, Leon, Grenada, Toledo, Seville, Cordoba, Murcia, Jaen, Algarves, Gibraltar, Algeciras, Canary Islands, of the Indias, the Islands and Mainland of the Ocean Sea, and Lord of Molina.

In Aragon he was: King of Aragon, Majorca, Menorca, Sardinia and Corsica, Naples, Sicily, Valencia, Navarre, Jerusalem, Margrave of Oristano, Count of Goceano, Count of Barcelona, Count of Roussillon, Count of Cerdanya, Duke of Athens, Duke of Neopatria.

In Portugal he was: King of Portugal, either side of the sea in Africa, Lord of Guinea and of Conquest, Navigation, and Commerce of Ethiopia, Arabia, Persia, and India, etc.

In England he was: King of England and France (titular) and Ireland.

Hapsburg Titles: Duke of Milan, Imperial vicar of Siena, Archduke of Austria, Princely Count of Habsburg and of Tyrol, Prince of Swabia.

In Burgundy: Lord of the Netherlands, Duke of Lothier, of Brabant, of Limburg, of Luxemburg, of Guelders. Count of Flanders, of Artois, of Hainaut, of Holland, of Zeeland, of Namur, of Zutphen. Margrave of the Holy Roman Empire, Lord of Frisia, Salins, Mechelen, the cities, towns and lands of Utrecht, Overyssel, GroningenCount Palatine of Burgundy from 10 June 1556; Count of Charolais from 21 September 1558

Honours


William II of England

William II of England (c. 1 September 1056–2 August 1100) was King of England from 1087 until 1100. He was the second son of William the Conqueror and Matilda of Flanders. He was a harsh ruler and was not very liked. He did not have a wife or any children. He died on 2 August 1100 in the New Forest when he was shot by an arrow while hunting with his brother-in-law, Walter Tirel (Tryyel) and other friends.

Mary I of England

Mary I (18 February 1516 – 17 November 1558), also known as Mary Tudor, was Queen regnant of England and Ireland from 19 July 1553 until her death. She was the oldest daughter of Henry VIII, and the only child of Catherine of Aragon who survived childhood.

Mary succeeded her short-lived half-brother, Edward VI, to the English throne. She was the fourth crowned monarch of the Tudor dynasty. Mary is remembered for briefly re-making England a Roman Catholic country.

Mary had more than 280 disagreeing religious people burned at the stake, which are recorded in John Foxe's Book of Martyrs. Due to this, many called her "Bloody Mary". Her half sister on her fathers side, Elizabeth I, came to the throne after Mary's death. Elizabeth made England Protestant again and persecuted Catholics who were viewed as "traitor".

Mary Tudor was born on 18 February 1516, in the Palace of Placentia in Greenwich. Unlike the other children of Catherine, she lived to be an adult. Her godfather was the famous Cardinal Thomas Wolsey.

Although she was not the heir Henry VIII was looking forward to, she was loved by her parents. When she was about 11, Henry decided to divorce Mary's mother, Catherine of Aragon, so he could marry Anne Boleyn.

After Anne Boleyn had a daughter, Henry VlII distrusted Mary and thought that her behavior came from her mother. So he purposefully separated Mary and Catherine of Aragon. He also banished them both from court and he removed Mary from the order of succession. Mary had to become one of her servants. After Anne Boleyn was killed by the King, Mary's half-sister also became a servant. A month later, Henry VIII married Jane Seymour. Queen Jane gave birth to Edward, Prince of Wales. 12 days later, Queen Jane died.

Mary lost a faithful friend and also her pride. She had acknowledged her parents' marriage as invalid and herself an illegitimate daughter. The rest of Mary's life with Henry VIII gave her a quick succession of stepmothers. Henry VIII died soon after marrying his last wife, Catherine Parr.

Henry had decided that the young prince was to succeed him. If he had no heirs then his older half-sister, Mary, was to be Queen.

If Mary did not produce a child, then Mary's half-sister, Elizabeth, was to be Queen. After Elizabeth and her heirs, would come Henry's sister Mary Tudor's side of the family.
Edward succeeded to the throne as King of England and Ireland. Edward began to show signs of a coughing disease.

Edward did not want Mary to succeed him. Edward went ahead with a plan to let his Protestant cousin Lady Jane Grey become Queen after he died. Lady Jane Grey was only queen of England for nine days. Mary executed her and married Philip II of Spain.

Mary had two phantom pregnancies (or false pregnancies), but had no child. The phantom pregnancies were cancer in her liver. After Mary died Elizabeth succeeded to the throne, becoming the new Queen Elizabeth I of England.

Edward VI of England

Edward VI (12 October 1537 – 6 July 1553) was King of England and Ireland, from 28 January 1547, until his death on 6 July 1553.

Edward was the son of Henry VIII of England and Jane Seymour. His mother died 12 days after his birth. He became king at the age of 9 when his father died. Although he had two older sisters, Mary and Elizabeth, Edward was the next in line for the throne because he was male. Because he was such a young king, the country was governed by nobles. He had two advisors (or regents). The first was his uncle, Edward Seymour, Duke of Somerset, who became Lord Protector. For the first two-and-a-half years of Edward's reign, Lord Somerset advised and guided the young king. Somerset was then replaced by John Dudley, Duke of Northumberland.

Edward was the first Protestant king of England. Although his father, Henry VIII, had broken the Church of England away from the Roman Catholic Church, he had not changed much else. Most of the major changes to the Church of England happened during Edward's reign. They were led by Somerset, Northumberland and Archbishop Thomas Cranmer. Also during his reign, England tried to take over Scotland. After a good start, it ended in defeat. His reign also saw economic problems and unrest.

He died when he was years old, probably from tuberculosis. Before he died, Edward named his cousin, Lady Jane Grey, as his heir and excluded his half-sisters, Mary and Elizabeth. He was trying to prevent Mary, a Catholic, from returning the country to Catholicism. However, Mary overthrew Jane less than two weeks later and became the queen. Mary undid the reforms of Edward's reign, but Elizabeth restored them in 1559.

Laws were passed to make churches more plain. Catholic churches were rich in decorations and colour. Now under Edward, stained glass windows and icons were removed from churches; the furniture within churches became very basic and plain.

The actual services became more plain and the common person could now understand what was being said at services – now called Holy Communion – were in English rather than Latin. Archbishop Thomas Cranmer wrote the Book of Common Prayer also in English. Priests did not have to dress in the bright clothing associated with the Catholic Church and under Edward. They were also allowed to marry. The king remained as Head of the Church.

All of these changes were a major break from the traditions of the Catholic Church. In parts of Germany and Switzerland, religious groups had also broken away in protest against the wealth and corruption of the Catholic Church. They became known as Protestant, and England under Edward, became a Protestant country with an independent Church of England.

Edward had never been a healthy boy and his health failed in 1553. After the nine-day reign of Lady Jane Grey, his Catholic half-sister Mary became queen of England and the country went through another period of religious changes.

Richard I of England

Richard I of England (8 September 1157 – 6 April 1199) was the King of England from 1189 to 1199. He was also Duke of Normandy, Aquitaine and Gascony, Lord of Cyprus, and Count of Poitiers, Anjou, Maine, and Nantes, and was overlord of Brittany at various times. He is sometimes called Richard the Lionheart or Richard coeur de lion which means the same thing in French. Richard was the son of Henry II of England and Eleanor of Aquitaine. As the third son, he was not expected to inherit the throne, and he was a replacement child. At the age of 11, he became Duke of Aquitaine.

Later, Richard was one of the leaders of the Third Crusade against Saladin. During his journey, he conquered Sicily and Cyprus. He fought in the Siege of Acre and the Battle of Arsuf. In the end, the crusade did not succeed: Richard was never able to win back Jerusalem from the Muslims. He decided to return home to England. 

On his way back from the crusade, Richard was captured by Duke Leopold of Austria. The English people had to pay a huge ransom to set him free. He was considered a brave and noble king, but he spent only six months of his eleven-year reign in England. He died after being shot with a crossbow while besieging a castle in Limousin. 

King Richard’s remains were buried in different places. His body was buried at Fontevraud Abbey near Saumur in France, with his father and mother. His internal organs were buried at Châlus, (at "The Château de Châlus-Chabrol"), near Limoges in central France. His heart was buried in the Notre Dame Cathedral at Rouen. 

King Richard’s heart was found in 1838 and was examined by scientists in 2012. They did tests for poisons, because one medieval story claimed Richard had died from a poisoned arrow. They found no evidence to support this idea. Richard probably died from gangrene or septicaemia from the arrow wound.

Richard was succeeded by his younger brother, John.

Because of his military exploits his popular image is still dominated by the positive qualities of chivalry and military competence. Contemporaries considered Richard as both a king and a knight famed for personal martial prowess, this was apparently the first instance of such a combination. He was known as a valiant, competent military leader and individual fighter who was courageous and generous. Victorian England admired King Richard I as a crusader and a man of God, erecting a heroic statue of him outside the Westminster Palace. 

King Richard I of England was seen as a pious hero by his subjects. He is an enduring iconic figure both in England and in France.

Jane Seymour

Jane Seymour (c.1508 – 24 October 1537) was the third wife of King Henry VIII of England and queen consort from 1536 until 1537. She was the mother of Edward VI of England, who died at the age of 15. Edward was the only male child of King Henry VIII to survive infancy.

Jane Seymour was the child of John Seymour and Margaret Wentworth. She was not educated as much as King Henry's wives before her, for example, Catherine of Aragon or Anne Boleyn. She could read and write a little, but was much better at needlework and managing the house. These were considered much more necessary for women. Jane's needlework was said to be beautiful and complex. Some of her work was kept till 1652, where it is recorded to have been given to the Seymour family. After her death, it was noted that Henry was an "enthusiastic embroiderer". 

She was a lady-in-waiting to Catherine of Aragon, the first wife of Henry VIII. When Henry divorced his first wife and married Anne Boleyn, Jane continued to be a lady-in-waiting. Henry VIII noticed Jane at court and had already fallen in love with her by the time Anne Boleyn was executed. He became engaged to Jane on the day after the execution, and they were married ten days later, on May 30, 1536. When Jane became queen, she ran the royal court in a strict and formal way, and her only close friends were Anne Stanhope and Elizabeth Seymour. 

In early 1537, Jane became pregnant and developed a craving for quail. In October 1537, she gave birth to the son that Henry VIII wanted so much. They named him Edward, and he was later to be King Edward VI of England. Soon, Jane became very ill with fever, and she died on October 24, 1537. Jane never had a coronation, and was married to Henry for only a year and a half before she died (May 30, 1536-October 24, 1537). Henry had loved Jane the most of all his wives, because she was the one who gave him a son. Even though he was married another three times after Jane's death, he always grieved for her. Before Henry died, he asked to be buried next to Jane.

Elizabeth of York

Elizabeth of York (11 February 1466-11 February 1503) married King Henry VII of England in 1486. This marriage united the House of Plantagenet and the House of Lancaster, the two sides of the Wars of the Roses. She was the mother of King Henry VIII. When she was only 17, her father died of pneumonia.


Catherine of Aragon

Catherine of Aragon (Spanish: Catalina) (16 December 1485 – 7 January 1536) was the daughter of Isabella I of Castile and Ferdinand II of Aragon. Catherine was the wife of Arthur, Prince of Wales and later married his brother, Henry VIII.

When Catherine was three years old, it was decided that she would marry Arthur, Prince of Wales. Catherine and Arthur were married on 14 November 1501. They were sent to Ludlow Castle in Shropshire, to take control of the Council of Wales. Months later, Catherine and Arthur became ill, possibly from a sickness which was sweeping the area at the time. Prince Arthur died on 2 April 1502, leaving after Catherine a widow at the age of 16.

Henry VIII married Catherine in 1509, shortly after he became king. She was extremely popular with the people of England. In 1513, when Henry VIII invaded France, she ruled as his regent.

Despite Catherine's popularity, she did not produce a surviving son. Her only surviving child was a daughter, Mary I of England. Henry's need for a son caused him to try and divorce his wife.

At first, Henry tried to convince Anne Boleyn to be his mistress in 1527. Anne refused, so Henry decided to marry her. Divorce was not allowed in the Catholic faith. Henry claimed that, as Catherine had been married to his elder brother Arthur, his was an invalid marriage. He quoted a verse in Leviticus which states that "a man may not marry his brother's wife and such a union would be without the blessing of God and fruitless", and used this as his case. It became referred to as the kings "Great Matter" and a special court was held with Cardinal Wolsey leading it.

An official from Rome was brought over and a trial was held. The official stated that he could not come to a conclusion and the case would have to be referred to Rome for the Pope to make a decision. The matter dragged on for quite some time, as the Pope would not agree to an annulment.

In 1532, Anne Boleyn became pregnant with the king's child. She was married to Henry on 25 January 1533 so that the baby could be a legitimate heir. Henry's marriage to Catherine of Aragon was finally annulled in the following May by Archbishop Cranmer, thus ending the first of Henry's 6 marriages. The divorce went against the Roman Catholic belief system, so Henry created his own church, the Church of England. This was the beginnings of protestantism in England, with the King as the head of the church instead of the Pope.

Until the end of Catherine's life, Catherine believed that she was the true wife of Henry VIII. Her servants called her their queen, but Henry called her the "Dowager Princess of Wales".

In 1535, Catherine was transferred to Kimbolton Castle and was not allowed to see her daughter Mary. Henry VIII told her that until they declared Anne their queen, they would be able to see each other. They never did.

Catherine died, most likely of heart cancer, in January of 1536, just five months before the execution of Anne Boleyn.

Gregory Peck

Eldred Gregory Peck (April 5, 1916 – June 12, 2003) was an American actor who was born in La Jolla, California. 

One of 20th Century Fox's most popular movie stars from the 1940s to the 1950s, Peck continued to play important roles well into the 1980s. His most famous role was that of Atticus Finch in the 1954 movie "To Kill a Mockingbird", for which he won his Academy Award.

President Lyndon Johnson awarded Peck the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1969 for his lifetime humanitarian efforts. In 1991, the American Film Institute named Peck among the Greatest Male Stars of All Time, ranking at number 12.

Sin City

Sin City is the title of a number of stories by Frank Miller, written in a comic book-style and the name of a movie that is based on the books.

A movie version of the "Sin City" books was released in 2005. It starred a number of famous actors, including Jessica Alba, Brittany Murphy, Bruce Willis, and Elijah Wood. The movie was directed by Frank Miller, Robert Rodriguez, and Quentin Tarantino.

The movie is based on four stories from the "Sin City" books: "The Customer is Always Right", "The Hard Goodbye", "The Big Fat Kill" and "That Yellow Bastard".


Brittany Murphy

Brittany Murphy-Monjack (born Brittany Anne Bertolotti; November 10, 1977 – December 20, 2009) was an American actress and singer. She appeared in many movies and was the voice of Luanne on the American television show "King of the Hill". Murphy was married to British moviemaker Simon Monjack (1970-2010) from 2007 until her death on December 20, 2009. She died of pneumonia. An overdose of legal drugs also played a part in her death.


Evershot

Evershot is a village in the county of Dorset. It is in the West Dorset District. In 2001 there were 206 people living in Evershot.

Copyleft

Copyleft is a name for a type of a license for free content or free software. It is not the opposite of copyright, but its purpose is the opposite of the purpose of the frequently seen copyright type of license (which uses copyright to "forbid" changing, giving, or selling something). A copyleft license uses copyright to "forbid forbidding" changing, giving, or selling something.

Both copyleft and non-copyleft ("permissive") licenses for free content or free software can be used for things like documents (for example books, art, music and software); they always allow people to change the works, and to give or sell them to other people. It should be noted that, although people might think that copyleft content is not copyrighted, that's a myth. Copyleft is a form of licensing: it is not just another name for public domain.

However, in a copyleft license, when a person gives or sells a work (changed or not changed) to a friend, the person must allow the friend to do the things which the author of the original work has allowed in the license to the person. This often means, for example, that if another person licensed a book under a copyleft license, and you changed it into a new book, you would have to license your new book under the same license.

Some copyleft licenses that are used a lot are the GNU General Public License and the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike license.

Uruguay

Uruguay (officially named Oriental Republic of Uruguay) is a country in South America. The language spoken there is Spanish. Its capital and largest city is Montevideo. Uruguay is bordered by two large neighbors, Brazil and Argentina. The only country in South America that is smaller than Uruguay is Suriname. The land is mostly flat, and there are many farms in the countryside. 

The area around Uruguay was fought over by the Portuguese and Spanish Empires in the 18th century. In the 1810s it was the center of the Banda Oriental, a Federal League of states in the Río de la Plata region. Argentina and Brazil took the majority in wars, leaving Uruguay as independent.

Before Europeans came to the land, no more than 10 thousand native people lived here. Spanish explorer Juan Díaz de Solís first explored the land in 1516.

Uruguay is divided into 19 different Departments.

The highest point in the country is the Cerro Catedral whose peak reaches to .

Uruguay has 660 km of coastline.

There are nine National Parks in Uruguay. Five in the wetland areas of the east, three in the central hill country and one in the west along the Rio Uruguay.

According to FAOSTAT, Uruguay is one of world's largest producers of: soybeans (9th); greasy wool (12th); horse meat (14th); beeswax (14th); quinces (17th); natural honey (19th); cattle meat (20th). On December 20, 2013, Uruguay was the first country in the world to legalize the cultivation, sale, and use of cannabis.

Uruguayans are mostly of European origin. 88%, or 88 of 100 people, are from European descent.

Football is the most popular sport in Uruguay. The Uruguay national football team has won the FIFA World Cup on two occasions.


Minnesota

Minnesota is a state in the Upper Midwestern region of the United States

The capital of Minnesota is Saint Paul. The largest city is Minneapolis. Over 3 million people live in the two cities and the suburbs that surround it, which are separated by the Mississippi River. They are known as the Twin Cities.

Minnesota became a state on May 11, 1858. It was the 32nd state in the United States of America. The name Minnesota is Dakota (a Native American language) for "sky-tinted water". Eagle Mountain is the highest point in Minnesota. The state bird is the Common Loon.

Minnesota has a humid continental climate. The winters in Minnesota are long and severe. Hence the state has a short growing season. During the summer, the south of the state is hot; the north is warm.

In the 1984 election, Minnesota was the only state that voted for Walter Mondale.



