Billy Paul


Billy Paul (Paul Williams; December 1, 1934 – April 24, 2016) was an American R&B singer. His biggest hit was "Me and Mrs. Jones". He was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Paul died on the afternoon of April 24, 2016 in Blackwood, New Jersey after suffering from pancreatic cancer at the age of 81.

Rita Coolidge

Rita Coolidge (born May 1, 1945) is an American singer. During the 1970s and 1980s, she charted hits on Billboard's pop, country, adult contemporary and jazz charts.

Coolidge is part Cherokee, and this influences her music.

Coolidge married Tatsuya Suda on June 19, 2012 in the Cook Islands. Coolidge was married to Kris Kristofferson from 1973 to 1980. They have one daughter, Casey. Coolidge also had romantic relationships with Stephen Stills and Graham Nash. Her leaving Stills for Nash has been said to be a reason behind the 1970 breakup of Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young.

Carole Bayer Sager

Carole Bayer Sager (born March 8, 1947) is an American songwriter and singer.

Elvis Costello

Elvis Costello (born Declan Patrick MacManus, 25 August 1954) is an English singer and songwriter. He was born at St Mary’s Hospital in London. He was an important musician in the late 1970s punk rock and new wave music styles. In the 1980s, he played an original style of rock and roll. Later he wrote and performed music in a number of different styles from classical to jazz.

Costello has won multiple awards in his career. These include a Grammy Award. He has twice been nominated for the Brit Award for Best British Male. In 2003, Elvis Costello & the Attractions were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. In 2004, "Rolling Stone" ranked Costello number 80 on their list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time.

After two earlier marriages he married jazz pianist Diana Krall in 2003.

Costello stated music artists like Bob Dylan, David Ackles, Gram Parsons, Randy Newman, The Band, Van Morrison, Georgie Fame, Moses Allison, Cole Porter, Roy Orbison, The Rolling Stones, Charles Brown, Grateful Dead, Warren Zevon, Brinsley Schwarz, George Jones, Otis Redding, Sam & Dave, The Beatles, Burt Bacharach, James Carr, The Kinks, Jerome Kern, The Byrds, Tom Waits, Elvis Presley and The Flying Burrito Brothers as influences.

Costello appeared with his friend Burt Bacharach in the 1999 Austin Powers movie The Spy Who Shagged Me. They played "I'll Never Fall In Love Again" during the scene where Mike Myers danced with Heather Graham.

In 2010, Elvis Costello appeared as himself in David Simon's television series, "Treme".

In 2011, Elvis Costello appeared as himself on Sesame Street. He did a song with Elmo and Cookie Monster, titled "Monster Went and Ate My Red 2", a play on "(The Angels Wanna Wear My) Red Shoes".


Costello has also released studio albums with Richard Harvey, John Harle, Burt Bacharach, Anne Sofie Von Otter, Bill Frisell, Marian McPartland and Allen Toussaint. He also released five live albums: "Live at the El Mocambo", "Deep Dead Blue", "Costello & Nieve", "My Flame Burns Blue", and "Live at Hollywood High". There have also been many compilations, box sets, and reissues by record labels such as Rykodisc, Demon, Rhino, and Universal Music Enterprises.

The Cure

The Cure are a British rock band. They formed in Salford, Manchester, England in 1975.

The Cure began in 1976 as 'Easy Cure'. It was formed by Robert Smith (vocals, guitar) together with schoolmates Michael Dempsey (bass), Lol Tolhurst (drums), and local guitarist Porl Thompson.

They began writing and demoing their own songs almost immediately, playing throughout 1977 in Northern England to an ever growing army of fans. In 1978 the 'Easy' was dropped, along with Porl, and an eager trio now known simply as The Cure were quickly signed to Chris Parry's new Fiction label.

In May 1979 their debut album "Three Imaginary Boys" was released to great acclaim, and as the band toured extensively around the UK, the singles “Boys Don't Cry” and “Jumping Someone Else's Train” were released. They supporting Siouxsie and the Banshees in late August to mid October 1979. Michael left the band in October of the year, and Simon Gallup (bass) and Matthieu Hartley (keyboards) joined in November 1979. In early 1980 the 4-piece Cure embarked on an exploration of the darker side of Robert's songwriting, and emerged with the minimalist classic Seventeen Seconds, along with their first real 'hit single' “A Forest.” They also supporting Alberto y Lost Trios Paranoias and The Smirks in early April 1980.

After an intense world tour Matthieu left the group, and in late 1980 the trio recorded an album of mournful atmospheric soundscapes entitled "Faith", which included another successful single in “Primary.”

The band then set out on a second trip around the world, named “The Picture Tour,” and they put out the single “Charlotte Sometimes.” In 1982 The Cure went back into the studio to record the album “Pornography” which had a dark mood. The trip was difficult for the band members, and the single “The Hanging Garden” came out just as Simon left the band.

Robert Smith and Lol Tolhurst were now the only band members. To feel better, the band chose to change the dark mood of the band into a more fun “pop” mood. So they recorded a dance single called “Let's Go To Bed,” and became good friends with the song's film-clip director, Tim Pope. The band continued into 1983 with two more fun singles: “The Walk” and “The Lovecats.”

In 1984 "The Top" was released, a strange hallucinogenic mix, which contained the infectiously psychedelic single “The Caterpillar.”

The world ‘Top Tour’ saw the band expand to a 5-piece, with the addition of Andy Anderson (drums) and Phil Thornalley (bass), and the return of Porl Thompson (guitar).

The new Cure sound was captured live for the album "Concert". Andy and Phil left soon after the end of the tour, and were replaced by Boris Williams (drums) and further returnee Simon Gallup (bass). This new incarnation started work on 1985's The Head On The Door with a very real sense of 'something happening'... The vibrant hit single “Inbetween Days” was followed up by “Close To Me,” and the ensuing world tour paved the way for the massive success of the singles collection "Standing On A Beach" in 1986. That summer saw the band headline the Glastonbury Festival for the first time, and a year of extensive gigs and festivals was crowned by Tim Pope's live concert film The Cure In Orange.

In 1987 The Cure brought out "Kiss Me Kiss Me Kiss Me", an immense double album of extreme and extraordinary stylistic range, and with the arrival of Roger O'Donnell on keyboards the 6-piece Cure traveled the world with the 'Kissing Tour', enjoying four more hit singles along the way. The wonderfully atmospheric "Disintegration" was demoed in 1988 and released in 1989, and despite being a work of powerful brooding grandeur, it too gave rise to four hit singles. The 'Prayer Tour' followed, with the band back down to a five-piece following the departure of Lol Tolhurst. It was captured live for the album "Entreat".

In early 1990 Roger O'Donnell left the group, and was replaced by long-time band friend Perry Bamonte, just in time for a series of headlining European festival shows that included the band's second Glastonbury headline slot. The album "Mixed Up" was released, supported by the re-mixed singles “Never Enough,” “Close To Me” and “A Forest,” and in 1991 The Cure at last won some long overdue “home” recognition with a Brit Award for “Best British Group.”

In 1992 they recorded "Wish", a richly diverse multi-faceted guitar driven album hailed by some as their best work to date. It spawned 3 fabulous hit singles, and the glorious ‘Wish Tour' that followed was a worldwide sell out. The sheer power of the shows inspired the release of two live works in 1993, Paris and Show. Immediately after the tour ended, guitarist Porl Thompson left the band again (this time with a smile!), and The Cure headlined the XFM 'Great Xpectations Show' in London's Finsbury Park as a 4-piece. The band also contributed ”Burn” to the film “The Crow” and covered “Purple Haze” for the Hendrix tribute album 'Stone Free'.

In 1994 Boris Williams decided to move on, and in early 1995 Jason Cooper took up residency behind the drum kit, with Roger O'Donnell rejoining once more on keyboards. Work on the next album was interspersed with recording “Dredd Song” for the film “Judge Dredd,” a cover of Bowie's “Young Americans” for an XFM album, and headlining several major European festivals, including the 25th Glastonbury. "Wild Mood Swings" was released in 1996, and went straight into almost every top ten around the world. The Cure hit the road once more with 'The Swing Tour', their longest to date, and released 4 more singles.

Galore, the follow up singles and video compilation to" Standing On A Beach", was released in 1997, after which work took place in 1998 on a variety of projects, including “More than This” for the “X Files” album, and a memorable appearance by Robert in “South Park” In 1999 the band completed the recording and mixing of what many regard as their best studio album so far, the Grammy Nominated" Bloodflowers". With its release in 2000 the band set off on the massive world-wide 'Dreamtour' - playing to more than a million people in 9 months.

2001 saw the long-awaited release of the Cure's “Greatest Hits” album, which featured all the band's biggest selling singles along with 2 new songs, the elegiac “Cut Here” and the ebullient “Just Say Yes,” a duet with Saffron. This year also saw the end of the group's relationship with Fiction Records, the label they had been instrumental in starting 23 years before.

In 2002 the band spent the summer headlining a number of European festivals before going into rehearsals for two very special nights in November at the Tempodrom Berlin, where they performed all the tracks from "Pornography, Disintegration" and "Bloodflowers" plus encores. Both performances were shot in Hi-Def video on 12 cameras, and Trilogy DVD was released in 2003 as another chapter of The Cure story opened, the band signing a 3 album global deal with the Geffen label.

2004 saw the release of 'Join the Dots', a 4 cd Boxset of all the B-sides and Rarities, followed by the widely acclaimed new album ‘The Cure’, and another hugely successful world tour.

In 2005 Perry Bamonte and Roger O’Donnell left the band and Porl Thompson joined for a third time. The quartet’s debut show was headlining Live 8 Paris, followed by a number of other summer European Festivals. The first 4 Cure albums (Three Imaginary Boys, Seventeen Seconds, Faith and Pornography) were re-released, with Robert providing 'rarities' for Deluxe Edition extras CD's, as part of an ongoing campaign to remaster and re-issue all the Cure albums. Immediately after closing a week of Teenage Cancer Trust Shows at the Royal Albert Hall in April 2006, the band started recording their 13th studio album.

In August 2006, the second set of re-releases ("The Top, The Head On The Door, Kiss Me Kiss Me Kiss Me") was released, each album as a 2CD Deluxe Edition, along with 1983’s Glove album Blue Sunshine, while in the studio The Cure passed the 30 new songs mark. In November ‘Festival 2005’, a 155-minute 5.1 DVD comprising a 30-song selection of live performances captured the previous summer by a mix of fans, crew and ‘on-the-night-big-screen cameras’, was released.

In 2006 The Cure started writing and recording 4:13 Dream. It was released in 2008. It was going to be a double album but featured 13 songs.

In 2013 the band started The Great Circle Tour.

Crawley

Crawley is a town in West Sussex, England, near to Gatwick Airport. Crawley was built into a New Town in 1947. It now has thirteen neighbourhoods. Some famous people from Crawley are the musical group The Cure, Gareth Southgate, an England football player and comedian Romesh Ranganathan. 

Pound Hill is the largest neighbourhood in Crawley. It is on the east of Crawley. It was the first one to be split into two wards - Pound Hill North and Pound Hill South. Its boundaries go north beyond the main built-up area of Crawley. This makes it also the most northerly neighbourhood in the town.

Furnace Green is a neighbourhood located East of the town centre. 

Blue Öyster Cult

Blue Öyster Cult is a psychedelic rock band that formed in Long Island, New York in 1971. They have many well-known songs like "(Don't Fear) The Reaper", and "Burnin' For You".

The group's best known songs are probably: The 1976 single "(Don't Fear) The Reaper" from the album Agents of Fortune (featured in the movie Halloween, and in the TV movie The Stand based on Stephen King's novel of the same name, and in the credits of Peter Jackson's 1996 movie The Frighteners) and the 1981 single "Burnin' for You" from the album Fire of Unknown Origin and "Godzilla" (1977).

The current members of the band are:

The original lineup of the band was:

The former members of the band are as follows:




