Odia Coates


Odia Coates (November 13, 1941 – May 19, 1991) was an American singer. She is best remembered for her duet with Paul Anka, "(You're) Having My Baby" from 1974. The song was #1 on the "Billboard" Top 100 chart for three weeks in 1974.

Amy Grant

Amy Lee Grant (November 25, 1960) is an American singer and songwriter. She is known for her Contemporary Christian music, as well as pop music hits. Grant is the best-selling contemporary Christian music singer ever. She released her first album in 1977 at the age of 16.

Grant was born in Augusta, Georgia.


Dalida

Dalida (real name: Iolanda Cristina Gigliotti) (January 17, 1933 - May 3, 1987) was an Egyptian-born Italian/French biggest international singing icon and actress. She was born in Cairo to an Italian family. She had Italian citizenship all her life. From 1961, she also had French citizenship. She died in 1987 by suicide.

The Bangles

The Bangles are an all-female American rock band. The band started in Los Angeles, California in 1981. The Bangles are best known for their hit (popular) songs "Walk Like an Egyptian" (which featured a dance where a person walks by bending the left hand forward and the right hand backward), and "Manic Monday".


Britcom

"Britcom" is short for "British sitcom". It is a situation comedy show produced in the United Kingdom. This is what they are called especially in the United States and Australia, where they have cult followings. Some of them like "Till Death Do Us Part" and "Steptoe and Son" were remade as American comedy TV shows ("All in the Family" and "Sanford and Son").


Millimetre

The millimetre is a metric unit of length. The symbol for the millimetre is mm. There are 1,000 millimetres in a metre.

Kris Kristofferson

Kristoffer "Kris" Kristofferson (born June 22, 1936) is a former American actor, musician, and writer. He is known for writing country songs for other people or singing them himself. He is also a well-known actor and appeared in films like "Star is Born", "Bring Me the Head of Alfredo Garcia", "Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore", "Blade", "He's Just Not That Into You", and "Planet of the Apes".

He is the author of a number of country standards, such as "Me and Bobbie McGee" and "Sunday Morning Coming Down". He was born in Brownsville, Texas and was raised in San Mateo, California. He studied at Pomona College and Merton College, Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar.

He began playing music in 1959, however his career began in Nashville, Tennessee in 1965 after coming back from military service.

In 2015, Kristofferson was diagnosed with Lyme disease after having Alzheimer's-like symptoms for ten years.

Kristofferson was married to Frances Beer from 1960 until they divorced in 1969. He later married singer Rita Coolidge in 1973 and they divorced in 1980. In 1983, he married Lisa Meyers. Kristofferson has eight children.

In January 2021, it was confirmed that Kristofferson had retired from performing and acting.

In 1976, he won a Golden Globe Award for acting and in 2014 he was honored with a Lifetime Grammy Award. In 2004, he was honored into the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum.

Mathematical constant

A mathematical constant is a number, which has a special meaning for calculations. For example, the constant π (pronounced "pie") means the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter. This value is always the same for any circle. A mathematical constant is often a real, non-integral number of interest.

In contrast to physical constants, mathematical constants do not come from physical measurements.

The following table contains some important mathematical constants:
The following table contains a list of constants and series in mathematics, with the following columns:
"Note that the list can be ordered correspondingly by clicking on the header title at the top of the table."




