Hank Aaron


Henry Louis Aaron (February 5, 1934 – January 22, 2021) was a professional baseball player who played right field. He played baseball professionally for 22 years and hit 755 home runs. Even though he has 755 home runs in his career, he never hit 50 or more in a season. He was selected for 25 All-Star games. He was put into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1982. 

Hank Aaron was born in Mobile, Alabama. He died on January 22, 2021, two weeks before his 87th birthday, in Atlanta.


Vishnu

Vishnu is the supreme godhead of Vaishnavism and Hinduism (Para Brahman or Nirguna Brahman) in puranas and vedas. He is called "Swambhagwan" in the Ramayana and Mahabharata. Vishnu is one of the three main gods in Hinduism and is the supreme being in the Vaishnava tradition and vishnu is a member of the Trimurti in Hinduism.

Vishnu is the god of preservation. This means that he protects the universe from being destroyed. It is believed that Vishnu holds the Earth and all living organisms. According to the Hindu religion, he has set foot and arrived on the Earth in nine forms called avatars, so far with one incarnation yet to come that is Kalki at the last to be Kali Yuga, to destroy evil. His most famous incarnations are Rama, Krishna, Parashurama, and Narasimha!

Vishnu holds a lotus, or "Padma," the indestructible mace of Vishnu (Kaumodaki), a conch (Shankha), and the unstoppable disc of Vishnu (Sudarshana Chakra) in each of his four hands. He is known to take many disguises, but the three main forms of Vishnu are Mahavishnu Karanodakshayi Vishnu (Mahavishnu), Garbhodaksayi Vishnu, and Kshirodakashayi Vishnu, the other two are the expansions of Karanodakshayi Vishnu.

There are 10 avatars of Vishnu (in the order they appeared):
The diverse branches of the Hindu Tradition accept the ninth form of Vishnu as the following:

Vishnu holds items in his four hands. He holds a conch in the upper left hand, which represents "victory". He holds the Sudarshan Chakra in the upper right hand, which represents "spiritual energy". In his lower left hand, a lotus (flower) represents "peacefulness", and in his lower right hand, the Kaumodaki represents "Vishnu"'s "powers".

The Kodlamane Shree Vishnumurthy Temple is dedicated to Vishnu and is the ancient Tirth Kshetra. There is no other place like this anywhere in Brahamanda.

Vishnu has omniverse manipulation, absolute manipulation, meta manipulation, and preservation. As the preserver, Vishnu can control anything and everything. The power to protect everything from anything is the reason he is also called the supreme protector of his devotees.

Absolute destruction: In the Vishnu purana, Vishnu is also described as the creator, destroyer, and preserver. As the destroyer, he can even destroy infinity or the omniverse.

Omniverse creation or absolute creation: As the creator in the Vishnu Purana, Vishnu has the power to create everything, even infinity and beyond. The power to have limitless power upon seeing the Supreme form of Vishnu. Arjuna describes him as having infinite prowess or power.

Omnipotence : Vishnu has the power to do absolutely everything, even creating something that is bigger than infinity itself. In chapter 11 of the Bhagavad Gita, Krishna/Vishnu shows Arjuna everything—all creation: time, space, past, present, future, the omniverse, fictional and real human beings, and more. It is beyond human imagination to actually comprehend it.

Omniscience: the power to have infinite wisdom experience and knowledge.

Omnipresent: The power to be everywhere at every time including beyond the omniverse in both past present and future. When Krishna/Vishnu shows his Supreme appearance, it is described being everywhere, yet people can't see it because they don't have the divine vision. Only Maharishis/sages, gods, Sanjaya, and Arjuna are able to see this Vishvarupa.

Formless: Vishnu's true form is described as formless, infinite, boundless, inapplicable, without shape and color, according to Vishnu Purana.

Absolute immortality: Chapter 1 of Vishnu purana describes Vishnu being boundlessly above the concept of death idea and life.

Absolute Transcendence/Being Above All Things: The Vishnu Purana also describes Vishnu as being above all descriptions such as logic, time, space, etc. He is an infinite dimensional being according to Vishnu Sahasranamam.

Money laundering

Money laundering is a process some criminals do to hide the money they make from crimes or political corruption, which is called "dirty money". Such dirty money needs to be "cleaned" so it looks like it came from legal sources, and banks can accept it without being suspicious on where it came from. Criminals also do money laundering to make it hard for the police to find out where the criminal got the money.

One way criminals launder money is by using the money earned from illegal activities to buy things (like gold and silver, shares or casino chips, other legitimate business activities like food or liquor stores) and then selling those things to get the money back. If a criminal buys and sells things many times it is hard for the police to find out where the criminal got the money.

Some countries have laws to try to stop money laundering. These laws help the police to find out when criminals try to do money laundering. Under the laws in some countries, business people must:

In 1989, some countries set up a group of people from different Governments to tell countries the best ways to stop money laundering. This organization is called the Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering. The following countries have joined the Financial Action Task Force (FATF/GAFI):

In Canada money laundering is a serious issue. The government of Canada has allocated more than $70 million to fight money laundering.

The province of British Columbia announced it is holding a public inquiry into this issue.
10-BEST-WAYS-FOR-STUDENTS-TO-EARN-MONEY-ONLINE

Zeus

Zeus is the god of the sky, lightning, and the thunder in Ancient Greek religion and mythology, and ruler of all the gods on Mount Olympus. Zeus is the sixth child of Cronos and Rhea, king and queen of the Titans respectively. His father, Cronos, swallowed his children as soon as they were born for fear of a prophecy which foretold that one of them would overthrow him. When Zeus was born, Rhea hid him in a cave on Mount Ida in Crete, giving Cronos a stone wrapped in swaddling clothes to swallow instead. When Zeus was older he went to free his brothers and sisters; together with their allies, the Hekatonkheires and the Elder Cyclopes, Zeus and his siblings fought against the Titans in a ten-year war known as the Titanomachy. At the end of the war, Zeus took Kronos' scythe made of diamond and cut him into pieces, throwing his remains into Tartarus. He then became the king of gods. 

The supreme deity of the Greek pantheon, Zeus was universally respected and revered throughout Ancient Greece; the ancient Olympic Games were held at the site of Olympia every four years in honor of him. Highly temperamental, Zeus was armed with the mighty thunderbolt, said to be the most powerful weapon among the gods. Zeus was married to his sister, Hera, though he was infamous for his infidelity, taking on an almost innumerable amount of lovers and consorts, both mortal and divine including Karis and Hercules' mother. Zeus was known for throwing thunderbolts at people. 

The god of honor and justice, Zeus was the one who both established and enforced law, and served as the standard for kings to follow, ensuring they did not abuse the power of their position. His symbols were the thunderbolt, a scepter, an oak tree, and the eagle and bull were his sacred animals. His Roman equivalent is Jupiter. Zeus was the strongest Greek god, the ruler of all gods. He also had a lot of children that he was not supposed to have.


Evolutionary biology

Evolutionary biology is a subfield of biology that studies how species start and change over time; or in other words, how species evolve. Someone who studies evolutionary biology is known as an evolutionary biologist.
Evolutionary biology became an academic subject as a result of the modern evolutionary synthesis in the 1930s and 1940s. It was not until the 1970s and 1980s that universities had departments which used the term "evolutionary biology" in their titles.

As a result of the rapid growth of molecular and cell biology, many universities have split their biology departments into "molecular and cell biology"-style departments and "ecology and evolutionary biology"-style departments. These have absorbed older departments such as paleontology, zoology, botany and the like.


1695

1695 was a common year starting on Saturday of the Gregorian calendar.



