Birdbox


A birdbox is a human-made, usually wooden box used as a house for birds. It is suitable as a bird home because it is similar to a natural bird home, such as a hollow tree, and birds often make nests inside birdboxes. Birdboxes are often put on trees. They are often made by people who are fond of birds, but they are also useful for studying birds. For domesticated birds, birdboxes are often used for breeding.

Most birdboxes feature a simple design with of six planks ordered in a cube, with a hole in a wall where birds can go in and out. Common additions include a small stick outside the hole on which birds can sit on, and a sloping roof to make rainwater run off. Some can however be highly detailed and decorated, depending on the maker's preferences. They can also be made from things like logs or gourds. They come in many sizes, depending on the size of the bird type the box is made for. Most birdboxes are small, but some, such as ones made for owls or parrots, can be quite large.

Although birdboxes are intended for birds, many other animals can inhabit them as well. Examples include bees that make beehives inside them, and squirrels.

Accent

An accent is the way a person speaks. 

Some people pronounce words differently. Often, in different countries that speak the same language the same words are pronounced in a different way. Usually they can be understood, but to listeners notice they sound different. This may, or may not, be a difficulty.

Sometimes, people will talk about someone's accent. They might say that the person has a German accent, or an Australian accent. An accent is the way you say the words. If you notice someone has (for example) a British accent, you can understand them (you know what they are saying), but also know they came from Britain.

The way a person says words usually comes from where the person was a child (where they "grew up", or their "home town") and the other people where the person lives. People learn how to say words and sentences and so they sound the same people near them when they speak.

People speaking the same language do have different accents. Even people in the same country may have different accents. Sometimes people can tell what city someone lived in when they were a child by the way that person speaks. One example is a New York City accent. They might say "bwoll" () instead of ball (normally in America), like used in sports and games; or they might say "hwot dwog" () instead of hot dog (normally or in that country). It sounds different, but people still know they mean "ball" or "hot dog" when they're talking.

When first trying to learn a new language, often a person will still have the old accent from their first language. That often allows other people to guess which country or place that person lived in before. 

If someone can learn another language well enough, someone may not have the old accent anymore and may get a new accent in the new language. If someone studied German in Austria, for example, people in Germany may think that person was Austrian.

Sometimes it can be confusing for people learning a language if there are more than one common accent. Perhaps it is better to learn the language with one accent so you can be less confused, and when you're good enough at the language, you can start to understand the different accents which people from different areas may have.

Regional accents were much stronger in the past. In virtually all countries the "regional accents were stronger in the past" than they are today. Even a small country like England had many dialects, which sounded almost like different languages.
The difference has been radio and television. The daily effect of hearing standard speech on the media has had an effect in reducing alternative regional pronunciation. People speak more like they hear on television, and this effect began about 1920 with the advent of radio.

Another effect has been that smaller languages have gradually got edged out, perhaps because children tend to copy the language they hear on television. If the local language is very different from the language on television, children may learn both. Welsh is a good example. There is television in Welsh, and many Welsh people can speak both Welsh and English. According to the region, one or the other is the preferred language for general conversation.

Louis Braille

Louis Braille (4 January 1809 - 6 January 1852) was a French inventor. He was born in . He invented the script braille system, which helps blind people to read. Braille is read by passing one's fingers over characters made up of an arrangement of one to six raised points. It has been adapted to almost every known language. Numbers can be written normal in Braille and there are as well some short forms for common words.
Braille was the child of a leather maker. He was the youngest of four children. He had three older siblings, two sisters and a brother. He became blind at the age of three, because he accidentally stuck a stitching awl into one eye while he was in his father's workshop. At the time, there were no antibiotics, and soon his injured eye was infected. The infection spread to his other eye and soon, he became blind in both eyes. He went to the when he was 10. Braille was a good student, especially in science and music. Later, when he was an adult, he became a church organist. He was also a teacher at the Institute of Blind Youth. Braille died in Paris at the age of 43 of a disease called tuberculosis.

Marsupial

Marsupials are in the infraclass of mammals called the Metatheria. This is the marsupials and their extinct ancestors. There are about 320 different species today.

Marsupials give birth to living young. The young are called "joeys". The joeys feed on milk. They are born very small. 

Marsupials have a special pouch where they carry their joeys. After the birth the joey goes into its mother's pouch, where it can drink milk and is kept warm and safe. When the joeys are young they stay in the pouch all the time, but when they are older they can leave it for short times. When they are old enough and too big for the pouch they do not go into their mother's pouch anymore.

Marsupial development is about half-way between reptilian development and mammalian development. That is not to say anything about being "better". All three methods were very effective.

Marsupials evolved before the southern supercontinent Gondwana broke off from Pangaea 100 million years ago. Early marsupial fossils have been found in Asia, from 125 million years ago. 

They were outcompeted on Laurasia by placental mammals, but the placentals did not get into the Australasian part of Gondwana before it broke away into a separate supercontinent. That is why marsupials now found native only on the southern continents of Australasia. South and Central America, with the single exception of the "Virginia opossum". 

Some of the 100 living species of South American marsupials have migrated north: 13 species to Central America and one to North America. 

There are 334 species of living Australasian marsupials. They are mostly in Australia and New Guinea, and some are on the smaller islands.

In more recent times the land bridge between the Americas, and reintroductions to Australia, have brought in placental mammals. They have caused the recent extinction of many marsupial species.

Marsupials are relatively speechless. So we can place the development of mammalian speech to about 200 million years ago with the early placental mammals.


The extinct genus "Yalkaparidon" (Order Yalkaparidontia) is a bizarre fossil found in the Oligocene/Miocene deposits of Riversleigh, NE Australia. Its teeth are so strange that palaeontologists call it a 'Thingodont'.


The borhyaenids and the sabertooth "Thylacosmilus" are no longer considered to be marsupials. They are sparassodont metatherians, the sister group of the marsupials.


B. J. Thomas

Billy Joe "BJ" Thomas (August 7, 1942 – May 29, 2021) was an American country singer-songwriter. Thomas was born in Hugo, Oklahoma.

His most famous songs are "Hooked upon a feeling" and "Raindrops Keep Falling On My Head", which was in the movie "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid". He sang throughout the 1970s. He changed to Christian music in the 1980s. He won a Grammy Award for every year between 1977 until 1981.

In March 2021, Thomas announced that he was diagnosed with stage-4 lung cancer. He died from the disease on May 29, 2021 in Arlington, Texas at the age of 78.

Laws of war

The Laws of war are some simple rules or international law which most people accept about fighting out of humanitarianism. Many people think that because there is fighting, there should be no rules. This is called "total war". However, laws of war have been made so that wars do not get worse than they need to be.


These laws come from various treaties. Some of these treaties are:


Maharashtra

Maharashtra is a state in Western India. Its language is Marathi. It is the third biggest state of India by area and second biggest state in India based on population. Only one Indian state has more people (Uttar Pradesh). Mumbai is the capital of Maharashtra. Pune is the cultural and educational capital.

Maharashtra is in the west part of India. It is on the coast of the Arabian Sea. Six other states of India have borders with Maharashtra. It covers an area of . It is bigger than Italy, but smaller than Oman. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the West Indian zone.

Maharashtra has more business than any other state of India.

There are some well-known cave monuments like Ajanta and Ellora. The first oil mill is in Mumbai. Some of the crops grown in Maharashtra are Bajra, Jowar, Rice, Wheat, etc. The neighbouring States are Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Goa, and Chhattisgarh. Some of the famous food dishes in Maharashtra are Pav Bhaji, Vada pav, Misal pav, etc.

As per the 2011 India census, Around 79% of people in Maharashtra are Hindus, therefore Hinduism forms a major link in the culture of Maharashtra. There are many temples in Maharashtra and some of them are very old. The architecture of these temples is a mixture of architecture from North and South India. The temples also have ideas from Hindu, Buddhist and Jain cultures. Maharashtra has many forts like Raigad and Pratapgad which were very important in the early history of the Maratha Empire and also sea forts like the one at Sindhudurg. A famous dance form in Maharashtra is lavani. Maharashtra is split into five areas: Konkan, Paschim Maharashtra, Northern Maharashtra, Marathwada, and Vidarbha. Each of these regions has its own unique culture, including various dialects of the Marathi language, traditional songs, cuisine, clothing, and people.

The folk music of Maharashtra is mixed. 

An early piece of Marathi literature is Bhawarthadeepika (known as Dnyaneshwari) by Dnyaneshwar. The religious songs called bhajans by Dnyaneshwar, Tukaram, Namdev,chokhamela,Savta Mali are very popular. Modern Marathi literature also has some great poets and authors like Jyotirao Govindrao Phule, Savitribai Jyotirao Phule, Dr.Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar, Anna Bhau Sathe, Namdev Dhasal, M.M. Deshmukh, P. L. Deshpande, Kusumagraj, Prahlad Keshav Atre and Vyankatesh Madgulkar. Many books are published every year in Marathi.

The theater, movies, and television in Maharashtra are mostly made in Mumbai, and the actors in each area (like television) can work in the others. Some important people in the movie industry are Dadasaheb Phalke, Dada Kondke, Ashok Saraf, Laxmikant Berde, Sachin Pilgaonkar, Mahesh Kothare and V. Shantaram. Early Marathi theatre had important playwrights (people who write plays) like Kolhatkar, Khadilkar, Deval, Gadkari and Kirloskar. They wrote musical plays called Sangeet Naatak. The music from those plays is called Natyasangeet. Important actors at this time were Bal Gandharva, Keshavrao Bhosle, Bhaurao Kolhatkar, and Dinanath Mangeshkar.

Some of the popular Marathi television channels are Mi Marathi and ETV Marathi. They have many kinds of shows: soap operas, cooking, travel, political satire, and game shows.

The food of Maharashtra is different in each place. The people in the Konkan region eat more rice and the ones near the ocean eat a lot of fish. In eastern Maharashtra, most people eat a lot of wheat, jowar, and bajra. Other important things people eat in Maharashtra are lentils, onions, tomatoes, potatoes, chilies, garlic, ginger, and aamras. Many people also eat chicken and mutton.

In the past, women wore a long sari (Nauvari saree) and men wore a dhoti or pajama with a shirt. Today, women in the cities often wear other clothes like Salwar kameez (dresses from the Punjab), and men in the cities wear trousers and a shirt.

Cricket is very popular in Maharashtra. Many people play it and many others watch it. Kabaddi is also popular. Children play Viti-Dandu and Pakada-pakadi (Tag).

Hindus in Maharashtra follow the Saka era calendar. Gudi Padwa, Diwali, Rangapanchami, Gokulashtami, and Ganeshotsav are some of the festivals that are celebrated in Maharashtra. Ganeshotsav is the biggest festival. Hindus celebrate it with reverence and festivity in Maharashtra and it has also become popular in other parts of India. The festival which lasts ten days is in honor of Ganesha, the Hindu god of learning and knowledge.

There are some national park as:


Pete Best

Randolph Peter Best or Pete Best (born Randolph Peter Scanland; 24 November 1941) was The Beatles's original drummer. He was born on 24 November 1941 in Madras, India to an Indian mother and an English father. His mother, Mona, later owned the Casbah Club in Liverpool, where The Beatles would sometimes perform. Best was drummer for the group from 1960 until 16 August 1962, when the band and their new manager, Brian Epstein, fired him and replaced him with Ringo Starr. The reason was because when the band auditioned for EMI, record producer George Martin was not satisfied with Best's drum skills, and planned to replace him on their recordings.

Best was devastated, and tried to form other bands with little success. He attempted suicide in 1965. He went on to work as a civil servant. In 1995, when The Beatles released their "Anthology" albums, which featured Best on some recordings, he received a large sum of money from the sales. He also found a new career, appearing at Beatles-related events such as conventions, where he sometimes played drums, with more skill than he showed in earlier days.

Dionne Quintuplets

The Dionne Quintuplets were the first quintuplets (five babies born at the same time from the same mother) to survive after being born. They were born in Ontario, Canada on May 28, 1934 to Elzire and Oliva Dionne. They were: 

The babies were delivered by Dr. Allan Roy Dafoe, who later was given custody of the girls by the Canadian government and the Ontario government housed them in a special theme park-like area, just across the street from the house their parents and 6 other siblings lived in. At one time 6,000 people visited Quintland each day to see the sisters, they also had dolls made out of them, and appeared in commercials for products like corn syrup and Quaker oats like oatmeal. Then in 1943, the girls' father, Oliva, finally got custody of them again and the girls moved back to live with their real family. Dr. Dafone died soon after that. The girls later claimed their father abused them. In 1998 the surviving sisters sued the government of Ontario for being exploited as kids and were rewarded 4 million Canadian dollars.

All's Well That Ends Well

All's Well That Ends Well is a play by William Shakespeare. It is a comedy. It was based on a story in Boccaccio's "Decameron". The date "All's Well" was written is uncertain, but it was probably written between 1600 and 1603. It was probably first performed about 1602-1603, and probably first printed in the First Folio of 1623. The play is about Helena's love for the unresponsive Bertram.


Fag

Fag can mean different things:

Christ (title)

In Christianity, the Christ (; ) is a title for the savior and redeemer who would bring salvation to the Jewish people and mankind. Christ is the Greek translation of the Hebrew title "Messiah" (; anointed one), the figure promised by God to the Jewish people and mankind for the salvation of the world. Christians believe that Jesus of Nazareth is the Jewish Messiah called Christ of the Christian Old Testament and fulfilled the messianic prophecies of Christian tradition. "Christ", used by Christians both as a name and as a title, is synonymous with Jesus.


Christian Bale

Christian Charles Philip Bale (born 30 January 1974) is an English actor. He is from Haverfordwest in Pembrokeshire. Bale is best known for playing Batman in Christopher Nolan's "The Dark Knight Trilogy". He began in a movie of Steven Spielberg's Empire of the Sun. He also played in "American Psycho" and "The Machinist". In 2010, Bale won an Academy Award and a Golden Globe Award for his performance in "The Fighter". He played Dick Cheney in the biopic movie "Vice", and won another Golden Globe Award. He is married to Sandra Blažić since 2000 and they have two children together.

Christian Bale, versatile actor, excels in accents, physical changes, music, languages, precision, genre shifts, stunts, production, and voice acting.


Eric Clapton

Eric Patrick Clapton (born 30 March 1945) is an English guitarist, singer and composer. Clapton is regarded as one of the greatest guitarists in the history of rock. "Rolling Stone" magazine ranked Clapton number 2 on its list of "100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time" in 2003. 

Clapton has played in a variety of different bands, including the Yardbirds and Cream.

Eric Patrick Clapton was born in Ripley, Surrey, England on March 30, 1945. Clapton's father, who already had a wife, returned to Canada after World War II. His mother, was not able to bear the shame of raising an illegitimate child (a child of unmarried parents) in post-war Britain. She left Clapton with his grandparents Jack and Rose Clapp (Clapton by her first marriage) and moved to Germany where she married another Canadian soldier. Clapton was raised believing his mother was his sister. His grandmother did not tell him the truth until he was nine years old.

A polite and well-behaved boy, the young Clapton was an above-average student, though in 1956 he failed the eleven-plus and went to St. Bedes Secondary Modern School. Two years later however, he passed the review and went to 13-plus on the strength of his art accomplishment and got a scholarship to a school in Tolworth, near Surbiton. He liked art very much. He wanted to learn to play the guitar after watching Jerry Lee Lewis on television. Clapton's obsession with playing blues music caused him to be expelled from Kingston College of Art because he was playing the guitar in class.

Working as a labourer to pay his way, Clapton spent most of his free time playing his electric guitar. Eventually he joined a local band, The Roosters. He later joined Casey Jones And The Engineers with fellow band member Tom McGuiness. In 1963, Clapton was asked to join The Yardbirds. It was in the Yardbirds that he earned his nickname of 'Slowhand'. The name came from his forceful string-bending that often caused broken guitar strings. He would replace the strings on stage while the crowd slowly clapped their hands.

After about 18 months with the Yardbirds, musical differences led Clapton to move on to John Mayall's Bluesbreakers, where his talent grew even more. It was at this part in his career that Eric's fans started using the phrase Clapton is God.

In mid-1966 he left the Bluesbreakers, whose members had grown to include Jeff Beck and Jimmy Page. The band he formed with bassist Jack Bruce and drummer Ginger Baker would become Eric's best-known band, and rock's first-ever supergroup, Cream. Cream became the "pre-eminent (best) rock trio of the Sixties"; the name came from its members being among the top session musicians in England. They played both their own songs ("Strange Brew", "Sunshine Of Your Love", "White Room") and cover versions of other people's songs ("I'm So Glad"). Like his contemporary Jimi Hendrix, Clapton helped to pioneer the use of the wah-wah pedal. He played a famous guitar called The Fool. He also developed what he called the "woman tone" on his guitar and used it to great effect. For instance, at one point during the song "Tales of Brave Ulysses", he combines the woman tone with feedback (overdriven amplifier) to create a unique sound.

Clapton became friends with Beatle George Harrison, who asked him to play guitar on "While My Guitar Gently Weeps", for 1968's "White Album". Clapton also played on John Lennon's "Yer Blues", in a filmed performance.

While Cream were popular and had several hit records, problems between Baker and Bruce, and the increasing drug use of all three caused tensions that eventually broke the band up in 1969. George Harrison teamed with Clapton, to write and record "Badge" for Cream's final album.

Clapton played again with John Lennon and his new wife Yoko Ono, as a member of the Plastic Ono Band. He appeared with them onstage in Toronto that September, and played guitar on "Cold Turkey", Lennon's song about heroin addiction. At that time, the Beatles were getting ready to break up. Lennon thought about asking Clapton to join his and Ono's new band, but decided not to have a permanent lineup.

Clapton and Baker joined with Rick Grech and Steve Winwood to form Blind Faith. Blind Faith lasted only a few months, and released one album. After Blind Faith broke up, Clapton formed another band, called Derek and the Dominos. Their most popular song was "Layla". He performed a concert at the Rainbow Theatre in London on 13 January 1973, thanks to his friend Pete Townshend of The Who. He started work on a new album, "461 Ocean Blvd", which was released July 1974.

The inspiration for "Layla" was fashion model Pattie Boyd. She was married to Clapton's friend, George Harrison. Clapton was in love with Boyd. He was not happy because he could not be with her because she was married to his friend. In time, Boyd and Harrison grew apart, and Clapton and Boyd got together. They married in May 1979. All three remained friends, and Clapton and Harrison called themselves "husbands-in-law", though for some years afterwards, the friendship between them was understandably strained. Clapton and Boyd were divorced in 1989, after they also grew apart.

Following the death of his four-year-old son Conor, who fell from a window of a 53rd-floor New York apartment owned by his mother's friend on March 20 1991, Clapton arrived at the apartment shortly after the accident. Clapton's grief was expressed in the song "Tears in Heaven", which was featured on his "Unplugged" album and for the 1991 "Rush film soundtrack." The song was Clapton's best-selling single in the United States and reached number two on the Billboard Hot 100. It won three Grammy Awards for Best Pop Vocal Performance, Male, Song of the Year, and Record of the Year. In 2004, "Rolling Stone" ranked "Tears in Heaven" 362nd on the magazine's list of "The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time".

Along with his drug problems, Clapton had trouble with alcohol, sometimes drinking a whole bottle or more of liquor in a day. In the 1990s, he was finally able to stop drinking alcohol. He also found out more about his father, who had died, and about a half-brother (by his mother) he had never met, who was mentally challenged and lived in a hospital.

Clapton is still making music and performing, sometimes with other musicians such as B.B. King.

Clapton also enjoys fishing at Eastlodge fishing.



