Cemetery


A cemetery or a graveyard is a place, usually surrounded by a fence, where people bury dead bodies and honor the dead people. Many of them have gardens and other greenery in them to symbolise life and to honor those who are dead.


Linda Blair

Linda Blair (born January 22, 1959 in St. Louis, Missouri) is an American actress. She is best known for her role in the movie "The Exorcist" (1973).

David Crosby

David Van Cortland Crosby (August 14, 1941 – January 18, 2023) was an American guitarist, singer and songwriter. He was most famous as a founding member of the bands The Byrds and Crosby, Stills, and Nash. He was born in Los Angeles, California.

In the 2020 presidential election, Crosby supported Vermont United States Senator Bernie Sanders.

Crosby died suddenly on the night of January 18, 2023 at his home in Santa Ynez, California. He was 81. The cause of death was problems caused by COVID-19.

Paul Harvey

Paul Harvey Aurandt (September 4, 1918 – February 28, 2009) was an American radio host. He was best known for his short radio program called "The Rest of the Story" that was broadcast on many radio stations in the United States. He worked in the radio industry from 1933 to 2009. He also had news programs two times a day, in which he would comment on the headlines and tell some odd news stories.

Harvey died on February 28, 2009 at a hospital in Phoenix, Arizona. His son, Paul Harvey Jr., said, "millions have lost a friend".

Carbon dioxide

Carbon dioxide (CO) is a chemical compound and is acidic. It is a gas at room temperature. It is made of one carbon and two oxygen atoms. People and most animals release carbon dioxide when they breathe out. Also, every time something organic is burnt (or a fire is made), it makes carbon dioxide. Plants use carbon dioxide to make food. This process is called photosynthesis. The properties of carbon dioxide were studied by the Scottish scientist Joseph Black in the 1750s.

Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas. Greenhouse gases trap heat energy. Greenhouse gases change the climate and weather on our planet, Earth. This is called climate change. Greenhouse gases are a cause of global warming, the rise of Earth surface temperature.

Its concentration in Earth's atmosphere since late in the Precambrian was regulated by photosynthetic organisms and geological phenomena (mainly volcanos).

Carbon dioxide is an end product in organisms that obtain energy from breaking down sugars, fats and amino acids with oxygen as part of their metabolism. This is a process known as cellular respiration. This includes most animals, many fungi and some bacteria. In higher animals, the carbon dioxide travels in the blood from the body's tissues to the lungs where it is breathed out. Plants take in carbon dioxide from the atmosphere to use in photosynthesis.

Dry ice, or solid carbon dioxide, is the solid state of CO gas below -109.3 °F (-78.5°C). Dry ice does not occur naturally on earth but is man made. It is colorless. People use dry ice to make things cold, and to make drinks fizzy, kill gophers, and freeze warts. The vapor of dry ice causes suffocation and eventually, death. Caution and professional assistance is recommended whenever dry ice is in use.

At usual pressure it will not melt from a solid to a liquid but instead changes directly from a solid to a gas. This is called sublimation. It will change directly from a solid to a gas at any temperature higher than extremely cold temperatures. Dry ice sublimates at normal air temperature. Dry ice exposed to normal air gives off carbon dioxide gas that has no color. Carbon dioxide can be liquified at pressure above 5.1 atmospheres.

Carbon dioxide gas that comes off of dry ice is so cold that when it mixes with air it cools the water vapour in the air to fog, which looks like a thick white smoke. It is often used in the theater to create the appearance of fog or smoke.

Chemists can get carbon dioxide from cooling air. They call this air distillation. This method is inefficient because a large amount of air must be refrigerated to extract a small amount of CO2. Chemists can also use several different chemical reactions to separate carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide is made in the reactions between most acids and most metal carbonates. For example, the reaction between hydrochloric acid and calcium carbonate (limestone or chalk) makes carbon dioxide:

The carbonic acid (HCO) then decomposes to water and CO. Such reactions cause foaming or bubbling, or both. In industry, such reactions are used many times to neutralize waste acid streams.

Quicklime (CaO), a chemical that has widespread use, can be made heating limestone to about 850 °C. This reaction also makes CO:

Carbon dioxide is also made in the combustion of all carbon-containing fuels, such as methane (natural gas), petroleum distillates (gasoline, diesel, kerosene, propane), coal or wood. In most cases, water is also released. As an example the chemical reaction between methane and oxygen is:

Carbon dioxide is made in steel mills. Iron is reduced from its oxides with coke in a blast furnace, producing pig iron and carbon dioxide:

Yeast metabolizes sugar to produce carbon dioxide and ethanol, also known as alcohol, in the production of wines, beers and other spirits, but also in the production of bioethanol:

All aerobic organisms produce when they oxidize carbohydrates, fatty acids, and proteins in the mitochondria of cells. The large number of reactions involved are exceedingly complex and not described easily. (They include cellular respiration, anaerobic respiration and photosynthesis). Photoautotrophs (i.e. plants, cyanobacteria) use another reaction: Plants absorb from the air, and, together with water, react it to form carbohydrates:

Carbon dioxide is soluble in water, in which it spontaneously interconverts between CO and (carbonic acid). The relative concentrations of , and the deprotonated forms (bicarbonate) and (carbonate) depend on the acidity (pH). In neutral or slightly alkaline water (pH > 6.5), the bicarbonate form predominates (>50%) becoming the most prevalent (>95%) at the pH of seawater, while in very alkaline water (pH > 10.4) the predominant (>50%) form is carbonate. The bicarbonate and carbonate forms are very soluble. So, air-equilibrated ocean water (mildly alkaline with typical pH = 8.2–8.5) contains about 120 mg of bicarbonate per liter.

Industrial carbon dioxide is produced mainly from six processes:

Carbon dioxide can be created with a simple chemical reaction:

Intermission

An intermission or interval is a break in a performance of play or opera. An intermission may be twenty minutes or longer: time for people to have a drink and time for the performers to relax. Plays and operas are usually divided into acts. The intermission will come where there is a suitable break between the acts. There are a few operas (e.g. those by Richard Wagner) which are so long that there may be two intermissions.

David Duchovny

David Duchovny (born August 7, 1960) is an American actor. He is best known for his role as Fox Mulder on the television series, "The X-Files". On August 13, 2007, his series "Californication" began airing on the Showtime television network.

Laramie, Wyoming

Laramie is a city in the U.S. state of Wyoming. It is the county seat of Albany County. Located in southeastern Wyoming, on the Laramie River, 49 miles (79 km) west of Cheyenne, surrounded by divisions of the Medicine Bow National Forest (headquartered at Laramie). It was founded in 1868 when several thousand persons made a settlement—a jumble of tents and shanties on the treeless plain between the Laramie and Medicine Bow ranges—during construction of the Union Pacific Railroad. Most of the builders moved on, leaving a handful to build a permanent city from a heretofore lawless settlement. 

Laramie’s growth was slow but steady. It attracted attention in 1870 as the site of the first “mixed” jury trial in the United States, when six women served on a grand jury. Its lawlessness further declined with the establishment, in 1873, of the Wyoming Territorial Prison. Humorist Bill Nye lived in Laramie; "The Boomerang", a newspaper that he helped found in 1881, is still published (as the "Laramie Daily Boomerang").

For years the search for precious metals in the Medicine Bow Mountains, 30 miles (48 km) to the west, provided employment. The railroad, cattle and sheep ranches, forest products, and the University of Wyoming (founded there in 1886) are important factors in the economy, as are tourism and cement making. The University Stock Farm is in the city, and the Geological Museum on the main campus exhibits a dinosaur skeleton discovered in the area. The university also maintains an art museum, an anthropology museum, and an insect museum.
Laramie city, river, plains, and mountains take their name from Jacques La Ramie, a French-Canadian fur trapper killed about 1819 by Indians on the river. The city’s attractions include Wyoming Territorial Park and the Laramie Plains Museum. Inc. 1874. Pop. (2000) 27,204; (2010) 30,816.

In 1998, Matthew Shepherd was murdered in this town.


Black Death

The Black Death was a pandemic in Europe and Asia during the 14th century. 

This outbreak of disease was at its worst between 1347 and 1351. 

It killed between 50 million and 100 million people across Europe.

Historians cannot be sure which disease caused the Black Death. However, most think that it was the bubonic plague. That is a bacterial infection caused by the "Yersinia pestis" species of bacteria.

The Black Death may have begun in Central Asia or East Asia. It definitely appeared in Crimea in 1347. It was probably carried by fleas living on black rats, which traveled on Genoan ships and brought the plague to port cities around the Mediterranean. Rats may also have traveled along trade routes like the Silk Road and brought infected fleas to European cities. When the fleas bit humans, they infected them with the plague by injecting a bit of "Y. pestis" bacteria into the wound. Symptoms would start three to seven days later.

Not everybody agrees that plague caused the Black Death. Some historians have suggested that anthrax or a viral hemorrhagic fever caused the pandemic.

The disease killed around a third of Europe's population, but some areas were less affected than others. There were 75 to 200 million people across Eurasia that died during the pandemic.

Until the 1700s, the plague seems to have reappeared in Europe at least once every generation. Some of the smaller plagues were more intense than others and caused more deaths. Later outbreaks include the Italian Plague of 1629–1631, the Great Plague of London (1665–1666), the Great Plague of Vienna (1679), the Great Plague of Marseille in 1720–1722, and the 1771 plague in Moscow. The most virulent form of the plague seems to have disappeared from Europe in the 18th century.

The Black Death had a very big effect on Europe's population. It changed Europe's social structure, which was a serious blow to the Roman Catholic Church and resulted in widespread persecution of minorities such as Jews, Muslims, foreigners, beggars, and lepers. The uncertainty of daily survival influenced people to live for the moment, as illustrated by Giovanni Boccaccio in "The Decameron" (1353).

At the time, 14th-century European writers called the pandemic the "Great Mortality". Later outbreaks made it become called the "Black Death".

The Black Death appears in some modern literature and media, used as a subject or a setting. For example, Edgar Allan Poe's short story "The Masque of the Red Death" (1842) is set in an unnamed country during a fictional plague that shares many things in common with the Black Death.

Albert Camus's writings used that theme too. His novel "The Plague" (1947) was set against an outbreak of the plague in Algeria and discussed how people handle the epidemic.

In humans, the bubonic plague causes fevers, severe flu symptoms, and buboes. The last are large swellings filled with pus that usually appear in the groin, under the arms, on the thighs, and behind the ears. Buboes are black and purple, which may be how the Black Death got its name. The disease was painful, and many victims died horrible deaths.

The medical knowledge of the time was based on Hippocrates's theory of humorism, which said the body consists of different fluids. If they are in harmony, a person is healthy. If they are not, disease results. Very often, diseases were also seen as a punishment from God.

The theory of humorism did not explain why disease spreads from one person to another. Most people thought that infection was caused by "miasma" ("bad air")"." The bad air could come from within the earth and so cause the disease. Remedies against the disease included opening only north-facing windows, not sleeping during the day, and not working too hard.

In 1348, Philip VI of France asked the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Paris about the cause of the Black Death. It concluded that the pandemic had been caused by a bad conjunction of Jupiter, Saturn and Mars on 20 March 1345. Since that answer was based on astrology, many people believed it, and it was translated into many languages.

Because nobody understood what caused the plague, doctors had no effective treatments. Often, doctors simply told their patients to go to Confession so that their sins would be forgiven if they died. Eventually, the pandemic caused doctors to change their ideas about how the human body worked. Just 200 years later, Girolamo Fracastoro discovered that diseases spread through infection.

Twelve plague outbreaks in Australia between 1900 and 1925 caused over 1,000 deaths, mainly in Sydney. That led to a Public Health Department, which did some leading-edge research. It found that plague transmission from rat fleas to humans by the bacillus "Yersinia pestis".

Mongol forces used the plague as a biological weapon in 1347. That was one of the earliest uses of germ warfare in history.

In Crimea, Mongol forces were fighting for control of Caffa, a Black Sea port (now Feodosiya, Ukraine). At the time, Caffa was a Genoese trade centre. Mongol forces began a siege. During the siege, they are reported to have catapulted plague-infested bodies over the walls into the city. Genoans fled the siege by using ships. Some historians believe the Caffa refugees brought the plague back to Italy with them, which started the pandemic.




