Tony Randall


Tony Randall (February 26, 1920 – May 17 2004) was an American actor. He was best known for his role as Felix Unger on the television series "The Odd Couple".

Lesbian

A lesbian is a homosexual woman. This means a woman who is sexually attracted to other women, and not to men. A woman who is sexually attracted to both women and men is bisexual or pansexual.

The word lesbian comes from Lesbos (), an island in Greece. An ancient poet, Sappho, lived on Lesbos. Sappho wrote mostly poems about love. Many of her love poems are written to women. So her name and the island where she lived make people think about women who love women. Sometimes lesbians are also called "Sapphists" from the name Sappho. Sapphic can be used as an umbrella term for love between women, regardless of their sexual or romantic orientation.

Lesbians were involved in the early feminist (a movement of women who want to be treated equally to men) movement. Feminism is the political and social movements that promote women's equality and rights. However, there was conflict between lesbians and straight (heterosexual) women in the feminist movement. In the 1960s and 1970s some straight (women who like men) feminists wanted the lesbians out of the women's rights movement. They wanted feminism to be accepted by society. They believed lesbians were less accepted by society and might hurt the feminist movement.

Eventually, the women's rights movement accepted its lesbian members. Now many important feminist leaders are out (out means that they make it known that they are lesbians) lesbians.

Many lesbian couples want to have children of their own. In order to raise children, they sometimes adopt. However some places do not allow homosexual couples to adopt children, so many of them want to be able to adopt children.

Some lesbian couples also have their own biological children. To do this they may have artificial insemination. This is when sperm from a donor male is placed in a woman to make a pregnancy. Some lesbian women do this at home with a friend they choose to be the donor. However many may use "sperm banks". These are medical businesses that match couples who need donor sperm with men who will donate. Sometimes this is done "anonymously" which means the couple does not know the donor. Sometimes this is done with the donor known and even chosen by the couple.

Unlike gay sex between males, lesbian sex is not against the law in as many places. Although, Abrahamic religions usually see gay as well as lesbian relations as immoral. Saint Paul in Epistle to the Romans 1:26 describes lesbianism as 'unnatural' and 'shameful'. There are some religions, however, mostly new religious movements that accept lesbian relations.

In most parts of the world lesbian couples cannot marry. This means they do not have the legal benefits and protection of marriage. This can cause lesbians, and gay men, many problems. Pedophilia committed by an adult lesbian upon an underage female may be a crime.


Maine

Maine is the northeast-most state in the United States. The capital is Augusta, although the city of Portland, farther south, is the largest in the state. Maine became the 23rd state, on March 15, 1820. It was previously a part of Massachusetts. Commercial Fishing, including lobster trapping, is a traditional and still vital part of the coastal economy. Tourism is a large industry in southern Maine because of its many beaches and picturesque coastal villages. Southern Maine is the part of the state that has the most people. Many other areas, to the North, are far more rural.

To the south and east is the Atlantic Ocean and to the north and northeast is New Brunswick, and the country of Canada. The Canadian province of Quebec is to the northwest. Maine is both the northernmost state in New England and the largest, accounting for nearly half the region's whole land area. Maine also has the distinction of being the only state to border just one other state (New Hampshire to the west). The municipalities of Eastport and Lubec are the easternmost city and town in the United States. Estcourt Station is Maine's northernmost point and also the northernmost point in the New England region of the United States.

Maine's "Moosehead Lake" is the biggest lake that is completely in New England (Lake Champlain is located between Vermont and New York, which is not considered part of New England). A number of other Maine lakes, like as South Twin Lake, are said by Thoreau. Mount Katahdin is both the northern terminus of the Appalachian Trail, which to Springer Mountain, Georgia, and the southern of the new "International Appalachian Trail" which, when finished, will run to "Belle Isle", Newfoundland and Labrador.

Maine is the only state that shares its borders with only one other American state since it only borders New Hampshire and Canada.

Maine has a humid continental climate (Köppen climate classification Dfb), with warm (although mostly not hot), humid summers. Winters are cold and snowy all over the state, and are mostly more severe in the northern parts of Maine. Coastal areas are moderated somewhat by the Atlantic Ocean. Daytime highs are mostly in the 75–80 °F (24–27 °C) range all over the state in July, with overnight lows in the high 50s°F (around 15 °C). January temperatures range from highs near 32 °F (0 °C) on the southern coast to overnight lows below 0 °F (−18 °C) in the far north.

Maine is mostly safe from hurricanes and tropical storms. By the time they reach the state, many have become and few hurricanes have made landfall in Maine. Maine has fewer days of thunderstorms than any other state east of the Rockies, with most of the state with less than 20 days of thunderstorms a year. Tornadoes are rare in Maine, about two per year, mostly happening in the southern part of the state.

In January 2009, a new record low temperature for the state was set at −50 °F, tying the New England record. The state's record high temperature is 105 °F, set in July 1911.

Humans have lived in Maine for many thousands of years. The Penobscot, Mi’kmaq, Maliseet, Passamaquoddy, and Penobscot Native American groups all lived there before Europeans found Maine.

Early during the colonial time, Maine was part of Massachusetts. It became its own state in 1820, the 23rd state in the United States of America. Its northern border with Canada was set in 1842.

As of 2008, Maine has an estimated population of 1,321,504, which is an increase of 6,520, or 0.5%, from the past year and an increase of 46,582, or 3.7%, since the year of 2000. This has a natural increase since the last census of 6,413 people (that is 71,276 births minus 64,863 deaths) and an increase because of "net migration" of 41,808 people into the state. Immigration from outside the United States made a net increase of 5,004 people, and migration within the country made a net increase of 36,804 people. The population density of the state is 41.3 people per square mile.

The Bureau of Economic Analysis estimates that Maine's total gross state product for 2007 was $48 billion. Its per capita personal income for 2007 was $33,991, 34th in the country.

People in Maine produce agricultural goods like poultry, eggs, dairy products, cattle, wild blueberries (the state makes 25% of all blueberries in North America, making it the largest blueberry maker in the world), apples, maple syrup and maple sugar. Aroostook County is known for its potato crops. Commercial fishing, once a mainstay of the state's economy, maintains a presence, mostly lobstering and groundfishing. Western Maine and springs are a big source of bottled water. Maine's company outputs make paper, lumber and wood products, electronic stuff, leather things, food products, textiles, and bio-technology. Naval shipbuilding and building remain key as well, with Bath Iron Works in Bath and Portsmouth Naval Shipyard in Kittery. Naval Air Station Brunswick is also in Maine, and serves as a large support base for the U.S. Navy. However, the BRAC campaign recommended Brunswick's closing, despite a new government-funded effort to upgrade its facilities.

"Notes"


1884

1884 was a leap year.



