Kölsch


The word Kölsch has several meanings:


Past tense

Past tense is a verb form which is marked by time (tense). 

The past tense is used for actions in a time which has already happened. In order to explain and understand past tense, it is useful to imagine time as a line on which the past, the present tense and the future tense are positioned.

Words in English have several tenses, including many common past tenses. The two that are used the most are the simple past tense and the perfect tense

The simple past tense is used for action in past time. It usually uses for story telling or there is in narrative and recount text.

Different verbs change in different ways to make the past tense. The most common way is by ending with "ed" or we usually says REGULAR VERB.
Many other verbs are "irregular", this means that there is no pattern and no easy way to know how the verb changes. 

If we want to make a past sentence, here are the formula:

~Verbal sentence~

(+) S + V2 (past verb) 

~ Nominal sentence~

(+) S + to be ( was / were) + Noun/adjective/adverb

(- ) S + to be (was / were) + not +Noun/adjective/adverb

(?) To be (was / were) + Noun/adjective/adverb

Example: 
(+) I went to bandung last week

(- ) I did not go to bandung last week

(? ) did you go to bandung last week?

(+) she was happy this morning

(- ) she was not happy this morning

(?) Was she happy this morning?


The Perfect is about "completion": actions which are completed. The tense refers to a period in the past. In English the Perfect is made by have + -ed or variations of that form.

Verb endings: -ed = finished; -ing = continuing

Freeview

Freeview is a free television service in the United Kingdom, and is sent to people's home using a digital signal. It includes more channels than normal analogue television provides. Over 30 television channels and 24 radio stations are on it at the moment. The service was put on air on October 30, 2002 in the early morning. ITV Digital was the previous service but the service had to be replaced because they were having financial problems.

Some TVs can receive Freeview automatically, but most people have to buy a special box to connect to their TV. In March 2006 over 6 million people had Freeview in their homes.

The service replaced the analogue signal in the United Kingdom in 2012.

Mark Addy

Mark Addy (born 14 January 1964, in York, England) is an English actor. The best known works by Addy are as Detective Boyle in the British sitcom "The Thin Blue Line", Dave in the movie "The Full Monty", father Bill Miller in the US sitcom "Still Standing" and more recently as King Robert Baratheon in the HBO fantasy epic "Game of Thrones".

Addy has played many different roles in both television and in movies. In 2013 he played Hercules, a medieval King, and a modern-day alcoholic with family problems.

Addy received the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture for "The Full Monty". He was also nominated for a BAFTA, Chlotrudis Award and Satellite Award. For "Game of Thrones" he was nominated for a Scream Award for Best Ensemble and an ensemble Screen Actors Guild Award.

Tuba

The tuba is the biggest of all the brass musical instruments. They are the newest part of the symphony orchestra, first showing up in the mid-19th century. Most orchestras have a tuba now. The standard tuba has about 16 feet of tubes.

Tubas are normally in the key of F, E"b", CC, or BB"b" and can have 3 to 6 valves. Because they are so big, some tubas have a "compensating system". This means a fourth, fifth or sixth valve is used to make the instrument sound more in tune - especially the lowest notes. 

It takes a lot of breath to play the tuba. It is one of the loudest instruments in the orchestra but can also play very quietly.

The tuba usually plays the bass (lowest sounding) part even though it can play relatively high as well.

The tuba is used in all sorts of music and can be found in orchestras, wind bands, brass bands, jazz groups, pop groups, brass ensembles and even in tuba quartets (in groups of 4).

Garden gnome

Garden gnomes are small lawn ornaments, usually placed in gardens or in front of houses. They are small statues, usually between one and two feet tall (30 to 60 centimeters). They depict gnomes, which are short creatures similar to humans.

Garden gnomes have become a popular accessory in many gardens, but they are not loved by all. They can be the target of pranks. People have been known to "return them to the wild", most notably France's "Front de Liberation des Nains de Jardins" and Italy's "MALAG" (Garden Gnome Liberation Front). Some kidnapped garden gnomes have been sent on trips around the world, being passed from person to person and photographed at different famous landmarks, with the photos being returned to the owner. This practice is featured in the 2001 French film, "Amélie" and in an advertising campaign for Travelocity.com. Non-conventional gnome statues have also been made, such as a flashing gnome in a raincoat, or a gnome couple in love.

A sub-culture exists among those who collect garden gnomes. This phenomenon is frequently made fun of in popular culture.

The first garden gnome was created in Switzerland. It was later introduced to the United Kingdom in 1847 by Sir Charles Isham, when he brought 21 terracotta figures back from a trip to Germany and placed them around the gardens of his home at Lamport Hall in Northamptonshire. Only one of the original batch of gnomes survives. His name is Lampy. He is on display at Lamport Hall, and is insured for one million pounds.


Kentucky

Kentucky is a state in the United States. Its capital is Frankfort. It touches the states of Missouri (by the Mississippi River), Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, West Virginia (by the Ohio River), Tennessee and Virginia. There are many rivers in Kentucky.

The first people to settle in Kentucky were Native Americans before the arrival of Europeans. African slaves worked on plantations.

Louisville, the main city of Kentucky until last century, was founded in the XVIII century (around 1778) by George Rogers Clark and some French colonists. 

Some people call it the "Bluegrass State" because of a special kind of grass that grows there. There are also horses in Kentucky that eat this blue grass. Kentucky is very famous for its horse farms. The Kentucky Derby, a well-known horse race. It is held in the city of Louisville, which is also the largest city in the state. Other well-known places are Fort Knox, The Cumberland Gap, Cumberland Falls, Mammoth Cave, Red River gorge, and Land Between the Lakes.

Some well-known towns and cities are Louisville, Lexington, Owensboro, Bowling Green, Covington, Florence, Maysville, Georgetown, Paducah, Murray, Bardstown, Morehead, Midway, Berea, Richmond, Danville, Versailles, Elizabethtown, Radcliff, Corbin, Somerset, Ashland, and Middlesboro.

Hodgenville, Kentucky is famous for being the birthplace of U.S. President Abraham Lincoln.



