Barbados


Barbados is an island country in the Atlantic Ocean. The island has an area of about 430 km². Its capital and largest city is Bridgetown. The official language of Barbados is English. Barbados is a popular tourist destination. In 2008, the island had a population of about 284,000 people. About 80,000 live in or around Bridgetown.

The island is in the western area of the North Atlantic and 100 kilometres (62 mi) east of the Windward Islands and the Caribbean Sea. It is about east of the islands of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and north-east of Trinidad and Tobago. Barbados is outside of the main Atlantic hurricane belt.

The island's only airport is the Grantley Adams International Airport. It abolished the monarchy and became a republic on 30 November 2021.

Barbados produces rum.

The earliest inhabitants of Barbados were Native Americans. Barbados was first visited by the Spanish around the late 1400s to early 1500s. It first was on a Spanish map in 1511. The native Arawaks may have fled or been enslaved. The Portuguese visited in 1536. They brought wild hogs for a good supply of meat whenever the island was visited. The first English ship, the "Olive Blossom", came in 1624. They said the island belonged to the British king James I. Two years later in 1627 the first permanent settlers arrived from England. Slaves from Africa were sent to Barbados to work on sugar plantations.

Barbados has been an independent country since 30 November 1966. Elizabeth II, Queen of Barbados was the head of state. The Queen was represented locally by the Governor-General. The Prime Minister is the local head of the government. On 30 November 2021, the country became a republic with the President of Barbados becoming the head of state. This means the monarchy and the office of governor-general were be abolished on this date and replaced by the presidency.

The Barbados Defence Force has roughly 600 members.
The Barbados Defence Force (BDF) is the name given to the combined armed forces of Barbados. The BDF was established August 15, 1979, and has responsibility for the territorial defence and internal security of the island. The headquarters for the Barbados Defence Force are in the St. Ann's Fort area at The Garrison, Saint Michael.
There are three main components of the BDF:
Force Headquarters — provided administrative and logistical support for the entire force
The Barbados Regiment — this is the main land force component, and encompasses both regular and reserve units.
Barbados Coast Guard — this is the maritime element, with responsibility for patrolling Barbados' territorial waters as well as drug interdiction and humanitarian and life-saving exercises. It too encompasses both regular and reserve units.
Barbados Cadet Corp — Military youth organisation. Includes Infantry and Sea Cadets. This organisation was started in 1904. The first females joined the cadet corps in 1970s to 1980s.
The Cadet Corps has a pledge and also a song. It started with 3 normal units but today has expanded to 22. These units are grouped into Zones. There are also a band, sea cadet and medical units along with a shooting programme.
In 1981 a Cessna 402C entered service as part of the air wing.

Barbados is the easternmost island in the Lesser Antilles. It is flat in comparison to its island neighbours to the west. The highest point of the nation is Mount Hillaby.

The country usually has two seasons. The "wet season" is from June to November. The "dry season" is from December to May.

Barbados is divided into 11 parishes:


St. George and St. Thomas in the middle of the country are the only two parishes without coastlines.

The population of Barbados is about 300,000 people, nearly 90% of that is predominantly of African and Mixed descent, 6% are Asian and 4% Whites. There is also an East Indian minority on the island and Chinese and other ethnic groups. Gypsies were expelled to Barbados during the colonial era. There is also a sizable Jewish, Arab and Irish population in Barbados.

Most Barbadians are Christians (95%). The most common Christian church is Anglicans (40%). Other Christian churces in Barbados are the Catholic Church, Pentecostals (Evangelicals) Jehovah's Witnesses, Seventh-Day Adventist and Spiritual Baptists. The Church of England was the official state religion. It was ended by the Parliament of Barbados after independence. Other religions include Hindus, Muslims, the Baha'i Faith, Jews and Wiccans.

The influence of the English on Barbados is more noticeable than on other islands in the West Indies. A good example of this is the island's national sport: cricket. Barbados has had several great cricketers, including Sir Garfield Sobers and Sir Frank Worrell.

Citizens are officially called Barbadians.

In the music business, Rihanna (born Robyn Fenty) is one of Barbados' best-known Grammy winning artists.

In Barbados, the official language is English. But they also speak an English-African Creole language known as Bajan.

Cricket is very popular on the island. Barbadians play on the West Indies cricket team. The country hosted the final of the 2007 Cricket World Cup.

Obadele Thompson is a world class sprinter from Barbados. Ryan Brathwaite, a hurdler, reached the 2008 Olympic semi-finals in Beijing.

Polo is very popular with the rich on the island.

In golf, the Barbados Open is an annual stop on the European Seniors Tour.

Over half a million tourists visit Barbados every year. Barbados has several beautiful beaches which are well maintained and the sea water is crystal clear. There are also features such as Blackmans Gully, Barbados Wildlife Reserve and Harrison’s Cave which have been developed for tourism.

The annual Crop Over festival attracts many visitors to Barbados. Barbados also has a rich history. Many historic sites and buildings such as Sunbury Plantation House and St. Nicholas Abbey have been preserved or restored. Visitors can visit these sites and learn about the history of Barbados.

A joint tourism initiative has been undertaken between Barbados and the Inter American Development Bank (IDB) to the tune of US$20 million. It is aimed at repositioning the tourism sector through the implementation of key tourism initiatives.


Annie

Annie (1976 present) is a musical. The book was written by Thomas Meehan. The lyrics were written by Martin Charnin. The music was written by Charles Strouse. "Annie" is based on characters and concepts created by Harold Gray for the comic strip "Little Orphan Annie".

The musical premiered on Broadway at the Alvin Theatre in 1977. It ran for about six years. A West End production opened in 1978. "Annie" won three Tony Awards, including the Tony Award for Best Musical.


Annie lives in an orphanage run by Miss Hannigan. She is chosen from the orphans to spend two weeks with Oliver Warbucks. He grows to love her. When he learns that she wants to find her parents, he offers a large reward. Miss Hannigan, Rooster, and Lily scheme to kidnap Annie, but their plot fails, and they are sent to prison.

"Annie" was made into a movie in 1982 starring Albert Finney, Aileen Quinn, Bernadette Peters, and Carol Burnett.

James Taylor

James Taylor (born March 12, 1948) is an American singer-songwriter. He is popular for his songs "Fire and Rain", "You've Got a Friend", and "How Sweet It Is (To Be Loved By You)". Taylor is a Democrat. He attended the 2012 Democratic National Convention in support of President Obama's re-election. Taylor performed during Obama's second inauguration.

Truro

Truro is the capital of Cornwall in South West England. It is the only city in Cornwall, and it is the most southerly city in the British Isles. The River Truro flows though Truro and boats can travel to Truro along the river.

Truro became a large town in the 19th century because of the tin mining industry of west Cornwall. When a new Church of England diocese for Cornwall was set up in 1876 Truro became the seat of the bishop. Truro Cathedral took many years to build but was finished in 1910. It is built in the Early English Gothic revival style. Truro also became the county town of Cornwall when a county council was set up in 1888. The Royal Cornwall Museum is Cornwall's county museum and is owned by the Royal Institution of Cornwall (founded 1818).

The Royal Cornwall Hospital is a major NHS hospital.

1664

1664 was a leap year.


San Francisco

San Francisco is a city in the state of California in the United States. It is in the northern part of California, between the Pacific Ocean and San Francisco Bay. With 873,965 people in 2020, San Francisco is the 4th largest city in California and the 17th largest city in the United States. It is the economic and cultural center of the San Francisco Bay Area, a metropolitan area with over 7 million people. The city is famous for the Golden Gate Bridge, steep hills, unique architecture, and its large LGBTQ+ population. 

Spanish explorers created San Francisco in 1776. They called it "Yerba Buena", which is Spanish for "Good Herb", because a lot of mint grew there. After the Mexican-American War, the United States took over Yerba Buena. In 1848 its name was changed to "San Francisco". It became a city in 1850. San Francisco was a center of the Beat Generation in the 1950s and the Hippie movement in the 1960s. Today, it is a center of social and political liberalism. 

When the California Gold Rush started in 1848, San Francisco's port became very important. Immigrants came by sea from around the world. During World War II, the city was a center of war industries. In the 1990s, the economy became focused on internet companies and other high tech. Many of the world's largest companies have their main offices in San Francisco, such as Wells Fargo, Salesforce, Uber, Airbnb, Twitter, Levi's, Gap, Dropbox, and Lyft. The city has among the highest average incomes and highest housing costs in the United States. 

San Francisco is at the north end of the San Francisco Peninsula. The Pacific Ocean is to its west, and the San Francisco Bay is to its east. The Golden Gate, a strait that connects the ocean and the bay, is to its north. The cities of Daly City and Brisbane, in San Mateo County, are to its south. It has a total land area of 46.9 square miles, or 121 square kilometers.

Several islands are part of the city: Alcatraz, Treasure Island, and Yerba Buena Island in the bay, and the Farallon Islands in the ocean. The Farallon Islands are a protected nature reserve. Only scientists can visit them.

San Francisco has a warm-summer Mediterranean climate ("Csb" in the Köppen climate classification). The record high temperature is 41.1 °C (106 °F) on September 1, 2017. The record low temperature is -4.4 °C (24 °F) on December 9, 1972.
San Francisco is officially called the City and County of San Francisco. It is the only city in California that is also a county. It is a charter city, which means it can choose its own system of government.

San Francisco has a mayor and a board of supervisors. The city is divided into 11 districts. Each district elects one supervisor to the board. Half of them are elected every two years. They serve as supervisor for four years after the election. The mayor is elected every four years. Elections for mayor and supervisors use instant-runoff voting.

Since 1960, San Francisco has voted for the Democratic candidate in every presidential election. Since 2004, the Democratic candidate has won more than 80% of the votes in each election. Every mayor since 1964 has been a Democrat.

The city of San Francisco has a public transport system called San Francisco Municipal Railway, or "Muni" for short. It operates light rail trains, called Muni Metro; buses; streetcars; and cable cars. The cable cars are the oldest and the most famous.

Bay Area Rapid Transit, or "BART", operates one rapid transit train line through San Francisco. It carries people south to San Mateo County and to San Francisco International Airport and east, then south under the bay, towards Oakland and San Jose.

Caltrain operates one train line. It goes from San Francisco south to San Mateo and Santa Clara Counties.

Ferries travel across the bay from San Francisco to Marin County, Vallejo, Richmond, Oakland, Alameda, and South San Francisco.

The Bay Bridge connects San Francisco to Oakland. It is made of two separate bridges. Treasure Island and Yerba Buena Island are between them. The bridge carries Interstate 80.

The Golden Gate Bridge connects San Francisco to Marin County in the north. It carries U.S. Route 101 and California State Route 1.

U.S. Route 101 enters San Francisco from the south. The southern part is a freeway. Interstate 80 then branches off to the east and goes to the Bay Bridge. The next part of U.S. Route 101 is on city streets: Van Ness Avenue, then Lombard Street, then Richardson Avenue. It becomes a freeway again and travels to the Golden Gate Bridge.

Interstate 280 enters San Francisco from the southwest. It travels northwest, then ends before the Bay Bridge. 

State Route 1 branches off from Interstate 280 in southwest San Francisco. It travels north as 19th Avenue. It crosses Golden Gate Park, and then becomes Park Presidio Boulevard. It merges with U.S. Route 101 before the Golden Gate Bridge.

The main airport for San Francisco is San Francisco International Airport (SFO). The city owns this airport, but the airport is south of the city in San Mateo County. Oakland International Airport (OAK) is also near the city. San Jose International Airport (SJC) is somewhat farther away.


Pelops

Pelops is a person from Greek mythology. He was the son of Tantalus and Dione and the father of Pittheus, Plisthenes, Atreus, Thyestes, Chrysippus and Copreus. 
According to the mythology, the Peloponesus was named after Pelops.

Tantaus cut Pelops into pieces and served him to the gods in a stew. He was later put back together.

Job

A job is any legal activity that allows an individual to perform a service and in return earn credits they can use to buy things.

A job can mean "some work that has to be done", for example: there are jobs to be done in the house: washing up, mending things that are broken, etc.

A job can also mean: work that a person does to earn money. The word "job" may be used when a person works for someone else "an employer" who pays them for the work. For example, a teacher's job is to teach children or adults. A taxi driver's job is to drive people in a taxi. A firefighter rescues people from burning buildings and puts out fires. A dermatologist's job is to diagnose and treat skin diseases. Some jobs pay very little.

The International Labour Organization was established to make people's job conditions better. It became an organization of the United Nations in 1946.


Crop

Crops are living plants grown by farmers. Most crops are foods such as grain, vegetables, or fruit. Some crops are for drugs, such as quinine, or fibers such as cotton, or other materials such as rubber or wood. Farms are usually made to grow just one kind of crop. Crops are domesticated plants, most of which have been selected to improve their size, taste and other qualities. Many crops are farmed in monoculture. Growing crops is a part of agriculture.

The following crops are very important as food to humans (The numbers shows the kcal of a person for a day). 


Proletariat

The proletariat (often shortened to ""prole"" in slang) is a term used by communists for a segment of society. It describes the class of workers in urban areas who work in industry or manufacturing. These urban workers are different from the peasants, who are workers who do farming jobs in rural areas. Someone is who part of the proletariat class is called a proletarian. 

The political way of thinking of communism states that the proletariat should have a revolution and take over the means of production. They are often sarcastically referred to as "wage-slaves." 

The proletariat is the laboring bulk of society that does most of the useful, necessary work, and pays most of the taxes. It is also perceived by capitalists as being necessary for those reasons: labor and taxes, plus being available to exploit to produce profits.

The word proletariat comes from the Latin word "proletarius", which means "maker of offspring". In Ancient Rome, the "proletarii" were the people who were so poor that the only form of property that they had were their children, who could be used as soldiers.

Karl Marx used the word "proletariat" to describe people who did not own the means of productions (such as factories and land) and had to work for others for a wage. He thought the proletariat class could overthrow the capitalist system and society more just. He learned about the word while studying Roman law in Berlin. In Marxist theory, the lumpenproletariat ("rag-proletariat" in German) were a class of people who were not interested in revolution.

Marx believed that the bourgeoisie exploited the proletariat.


Ohio River

The Ohio River is the one of the most important tributaries to the Mississippi River. It is 981 miles long and it forms boundaries for the states of Ohio, Kentucky, Illinois, Indiana, and West Virginia before finally going to its headwaters in Pennsylvania. It is its widest a little to the West of downtown Louisville, where it is one mile wide. Cities on the Ohio River include Evansville, Indiana, Paducah, Kentucky, Cincinnati, Ohio, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The river begins in Pittsburgh. The Wabash, Kentucky and the Tennessee Rivers flow into the Ohio.


Croatia

Croatia ( ) is a unitary democratic parliamentary republic in Central and Southeastern Europe. Croatia has been influenced by powers from both regions at varying points in its history. Its capital and largest city is Zagreb. Croatia is a part of the Balkans, and was one of the republics of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. It became independent in 1991. It joined the European Union on 1 July 2013.

In earlier times, the land now known as Croatia was inhabited by different kinds of humans including Neanderthals and Neolithic cultures. In Roman times, seafaring pirates known to the Romans as the Dalmatian Tribes lived there, as the Histri, Liburni and the Delmatae. The Romans conquered and annexed the territory in 9 AD, calling it the province of "Dalmatia," named after these tribes. During more than 400 years of Roman rule, the province of Dalmatia would become Romanized. The Roman invaders mixed with the natives and their descendants adopted a Roman lifestyle even after the collapse of the Roman state in 476 AD.

In the early seventh century AD, pagan West Slavs named the Croats (where Croatia gets its name) came to live in the former province of Dalmatia when they conquered the people already living there. However, they would soon be influenced by Roman Catholic Christian missionaries who completed the process of Christianization in the early 9th century. From the time of the crowning of Tomislav in 925 as the first King of Croatia, Croatia would become its own independent Catholic kingdom until 1102, when a Hungarian prince inherited the Croatian throne. The Hungarians would rule as Kings of Croatia until the early modern period, when the last Hungarian king of Croatia Louis II was killed at the Battle of Mohacs in 1526 and the kingdom chose the Austrian Archduke Ferdinand as king the next year.

Croatia would remain as a part of the empire of Austria-Hungary under Ferdinand's descendants until 1918. In 1918 it became a part of Kingdom of Slovenians, Croats and Serbs, later named Yugoslavia which was occupied in World War II.
After a short war with Italy a fascist dictatorship formed the Independent State of Croatia in 1941, but it was not independent from the control of Nazi Germany (see also Jasenovac concentration camp).

In 1945, Croatia became a part of new Yugoslavia (Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia) which was non-aligned after breaking connections with Eastern Bloc. It collapsed in 1991 as initially Slovenia, than Croatia, later other republics claimed independence and became parliamentary democracies. War with Yugoslavia made a strong impact on society in economic, political and cultural terms. Civil society and media that came out of anti-war struggle in Croatia grew against nationalism, media and civil freedoms, later also corruption.

The country's democratic development around 2000, made it possible for Croatia to finally join Slovenia as only the second republic to become the European Union member on 1 July 2013.

In recent decades Croatia is increasingly popular tourist destination, especially the coastal regions of Dalmatia and Istria.

Croatia is in Central and Southeast Europe, bordering Hungary to the northeast, Serbia to the east, Bosnia and Herzegovina to the south-east, Montenegro to the south-east, the Adriatic Sea to the south-west and Slovenia to the northwest. It lies mostly between latitudes 42° and 47° N and longitudes 13° and 20° E. Part of the territory in the extreme south surrounding Dubrovnik is a practical exclave connected to the rest of the mainland by territorial waters, but separated on land by a short coastline strip belonging to Bosnia and Herzegovina around Neum. Croatia is divided into 21 counties.

Croatia is the 127th largest country in the world. The highest point is the Dinara peak at . Thousands of islands are part of Croatia. 48 have people living there year-round. The largest islands are Cres and Krk. Major rivers are the Sava, Drava, Kupa and Danube.

There are many deep caves in Croatia. 49 of which are deeper than . Croatia's most famous lakes are the Plitvice lakes.

Most of Croatia has a moderately warm and rainy continental climate. Average temperature ranges between (in January) and (in July). The coldest parts of the country are Lika and Gorski Kotar. The warmest are at the Adriatic coast.

There are several ecoregions in Croatia. The coastline, forests, mountains, and rivers give Croatia diverse flora and fauna. There are more than a thousand endemic species.

Croatia is home to the only known aquatic cave vertebrate—the olm.

There are 444 protected areas of Croatia. Those include eight national parks, two strict reserves, and ten nature parks. The oldest national park in Croatia is the Plitvice Lakes National Park, a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

Croatia adopted its constitution in 1990. It declared independence from Yugoslavia on 8 October 1991.

The President of the Republic is the head of state. The President is directly elected to a five-year term. The Constitution limits the President to a maximum of two terms. Zoran Milanović became president in 2020.
The Prime Minister of Croatia is the head of government. Since 2016, the prime minister of the government is Andrej Plenković.

Croatia is one of the richest countries of the Balkan Peninsula and of the former Yugoslavia's countries. But Croatia had also the highest cost prices of the whole Central Europe. The average monthly salary/wages in Croatia standing on 739 euro or nearly US$1000.

The retirement age for men is 65 years and for women 60 years.
The health care enjoys relative strong protection for the country's inhabitants.

Education is free and required until the child reaches the age of 15. Many choose to continue their studies in high school until the age of 18.

After the war that devastated the country, Croatia has rebuilt its infrastructure, revitalizing its image as a Mediterranean country with crystal clear waters, medieval cities that mix western and eastern architecture, respect for the environment and traditions with the arrival of tourism. Dubrovnik has become the most characteristic symbol of this new Croatia that is strongly committed to European tourism. It is developing a type of tourism based on sustainability, in which culture, gastronomy and nature coexist with the visitor, offering them the experience of discovering Croatia as part of it.

There are many reasons to visit Croatia. Its six UNESCO World Heritage sites : Dubrovnik's Old Town (undoubtedly one of the most beautiful cities in Europe), the Diocletian's Palace in Split, the historic core of Trogir, the Cathedral of St. James of Sibenik, the Plitvice Lakes National Park, or the Episcopal Ensemble of the Euphrasian Basilica in the Historic Center of Porec (Istria) .

Nature is another attractive source of tourism in Croatia. Its eight National Parks and ten Natural Parks with their varied fauna and flora show all their splendor, with a coastline that winds from the Istria Peninsula to the south of Dalmatia, leaving beautiful coves, beaches, and cliffs. The islands, such as Hvar or Korcula, in Dalmatia or Rab and Losinj in Kvarner Bay, which are sometimes grouped together in archipelagos as interesting as those of Brijuni or Kornati, they host millions of tourists who seek peace or the possibility of practicing nudism, so associated with Croatia, in its crystalline waters. More than a thousand islands and islets that make up the Adriatic Coast, a paradise for those who love sailing and seek to cross the Adriatic by Sailboat .

The variety of the tourist offer in Croatia goes beyond the beautiful cities Dubrovnik, Zagreb or Split.



