Watermelon


A watermelon ("Citrullus lanatus") is a plant which was first domesticated in Africa. It is a cultivated edible fruit. It is grown worldwide, there are more than 1000 varieties. 

About 6% of a watermelon is sugar, which makes it very sweet. There are many different types of watermelon. Some have a green rind on the outside and a red-pink flesh on the inside, with brown seeds. Some can have yellow flesh, and some can be seedless. The green rind on the outside is not usually eaten, though it can be used as a vegetable. It can also be stewed or pickled. Most watermelons are oblong or spherical. In Japan, watermelons are grown in different shapes, such as hearts and squares.

Watermelons are a great source of vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin B1 and vitamin B6. They also contain potassium, magnesium, carotenoid antioxidant, and lycopene. The watermelon flesh is healthy to eat.

Monrovia

Monrovia (; ) is the capital of Liberia. It is Liberia's most populous city with a population of 1,010,970. The city is named after 5th U.S. President James Monroe.

Monrovia was founded in 1822 by the American Colonization Society. They wanted free slaves to have their own home back in Africa.

Paul Anka

Paul Albert Anka (born July 30, 1941) is a Canadian-American singer and songwriter. He is best known for such songs as "Diana" (1957) and "Lonely Boy" (1959).

Anka was inducted into Canada's Walk of Fame in 2005.

Anka was born in Ottawa, Ontario to Camelia and Andrew Emile "Andy" Anka, Sr. They owned a restaurant named the Locanda. His parents were both Antiochian Orthodox Christians in Syria. Anka's mother was Canadian-Lebanese "from a small town of, in Syria " and Anka's father was Syrian.

Anka grew up singing in the St. Elias Antiochian Orthodox Church choir. He went to Fisher Park High School where he was part of a vocal trio called the "Bobby Soxers".

He became an American citizen in 1990. He is married to Polish-born Anna Anka.


Neil Young

Neil Percival Young (born November 12, 1945) is a Canadian-American musician. He is known for his country and rock songs. 

Many of his songs have a political and/or personal message. He was also a member of the groups Buffalo Springfield and Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young.

Some of his best-known songs are "Heart of Gold", "Helpless", "After the Gold Rush", "Rockin' in the Free World", "Cinnamon Girl", "Southern Man" and "Like a Hurricane".

Young has explored many different styles of music during his career, and not all his records have been popular. During the 1980s, he was sued by his record company, Geffen Records, who believed he was making records that would not sell very many copies on purpose. Young won out over Geffen in court.

Sometimes, people call him the "Godfather of Grunge" because the style of some of his songs led to the kind of music called grunge music that started to be popular in the early 1990s.

From 1978 until their divorce in 2014, he was married to singer-songwriter Pegi Young. They had two children.

He became a United States citizen, taking dual citizenship on January 22, 2020.

Young is known as an environmental and political activist and his views can sometimes be found in the lyrics of his songs. He is a long-time supporter of the family farmer. In 1985 Young, along with Willie Nelson and John Mellencamp, co-founded the benefit concert called Farm Aid which has continued every year to help raise money to keep farmers in business. He also did not support George W. Bush when he was the president of the United States, and even wrote a song called "Let's Impeach the President" about how he thought Bush should lose his powers.

In the 1970s, Young released two songs (on his "After The Gold Rush" and "Harvest" albums) critical of racism in the Southern United States. These songs were called "Southern Man" and "Alabama". Lynyrd Skynyrd, a band from the Southern United States, made a song in response called "Sweet Home Alabama" that has become a very popular rock classic. Young's name is said in the lyrics of "Sweet Home Alabama".

In 2016 and in 2020, Young supported Bernie Sanders for President of the United States.

Neil Young has been inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame twice, first as a solo artist in 1995 and again as a member of Buffalo Springfield in 1997.

The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy

The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy is a science fiction comedy series by Douglas Adams. It started out as a radio show series for the BBC Radio 4 in 1978. 

Between 1979 - 1992, Adams wrote a series of five books.

In 1980, a second radio series was broadcast.

In 1981, it was made into a television series. 

In 2004, the third radio series was broadcast.

In 2005, it was made into a movie, and the fourth and fifth radio series were broadcast. A CD was released following the final episode transmission of each radio series.

It has also been a computer game, and several stage plays and comic books. Douglas Adams also suggested he would write a sixth book but he died before he could complete it, so Eoin Colfer wrote the sixth book in the series.

In 2018, the sixth radio series, the "Hexagonal Phase", was broadcast on BBC Radio 4. 
It featured Professor Stephen Hawking introducing himself as the voice of "The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy Mk II" by saying: "I have been quite popular in my time. Some even read my books".

The six books in the "Hitchhiker's Guide" series are:

The radio, book, TV and movie versions differ from each other. The same basic plot is used but they sometimes contradict each other. This is due to Adams rewriting the story for each new medium. 
In all versions, the story follows the adventures of Arthur Dent. He is an Englishman. His house is being bulldozed to make way for a bypass. At the same time the Earth is being demolished by the Vogons to make way for an intergalactic bypass. The vogons are a race of unpleasant and bureaucratic aliens. 

Dent's friend, Ford Prefect, is an alien. He is a researcher for the eponymous guidebook. He rescues Dent from Earth's destruction.

Zaphod Beeblebrox is Ford's eccentric semi-cousin. Beeblebrox is the Galactic President. He has stolen the "Heart of Gold", a spacecraft equipped with the Infinite Improbability Drive. The depressed robot Marvin the Paranoid Android and Trillian are crew members.
Trillian was known as Tricia McMillan, a woman Arthur once met at a party in Islington. Beeblebrox saved her from Earth's destruction. She is the only other human survivor.

Arthur learns that the Earth was actually a giant supercomputer. It was created by another supercomputer, Deep Thought. Deep Thought had been built to give the answer to the "Ultimate Question of Life, the Universe, and Everything". It gave the answer as "42". The creators of Deep Thought were disappointed and Deep Thought was then instructed to design the Earth supercomputer to determine what the question actually is.

The Earth was destroyed by the Vogons just before its calculations were due to complete. Arthur becomes the target of the descendants of the Deep Thought creators, believing his mind must hold the Question. With his friends' help, Arthur escapes and they decide to have lunch at The Restaurant at the End of the Universe. They have more adventures.

Cookbook

A cookbook, or cookery book, is kind of book that tells people how to prepare food for eating using specific instructions called a recipe. Most cookbooks also have tips on how to eat and present the food as well. They usually list the ingredients needed, time needed to cook, and the instructions. They may give other tips too. 

Somalia

Somalia (; ), officially called the Federal Republic of Somalia (; ), is a country located on the Horn of Africa. It used to be known as the Somali Republic. 

It is bordered by Djibouti to the northwest, Kenya with Yemen to the north, the Guardafui Channel and Somali Sea to the east, and Ethiopia to the west. It has a hot, dry climate. A person from Somalia is called a "Somali".

Somalia is a republic governed by a federal administration with various regional administrations governing on a micro level.

Somalia is an independent country. Since the Somali Civil War in the early 1990s, there has been no working government that covers all of Somalia; instead, different pirates have been destabilizing the region to the southwest, the Gulf of Aden. Somalia is now trying to gain control of their people and get back up on its feet with very little resources.
Somalia is one of the poorest and least developed countries. It has the world's second-highest fertility rate.

There are four big tribes in Somalia, the Hawiye, the Dirweyn, the Koofur Orsi inhabitants and the Darood. Somalis are a nation of related families, which are called clans. Groups of clans sometimes band together based on a common ancestor or other blood relationship. Sometimes these family relationships date back hundreds or even thousands of years in the past. Somalis are mostly camel or goat herders, and depend on their livestock to live. In Somalia there are limited sources of drinking water and grazing land, and disputes over grazing rights, water rights, or land in general can lead to fighting between families. Because of the clan system, the families involved will call on their clan for help, leading to a clan war. The discovery of oil and minerals in Somalia, as well as the power and money associated with politics and business, has created more opportunities for families to get ahead, and has also created more reasons for families to have disputes.

Because Somalia does not have a working legal system, the only help a family in Somalia has to solve a dispute with another family is to get their clan involved. The only solution to the clan wars in Somalia is a working legal system, but the only group who has succeeded in creating one is the Islamic Courts Union. Unfortunately the Islamic Courts Union was accused of being terrorists and Ethiopia invaded Somalia to topple their government and put the government they created in power instead.

In ancient times, Somalia was a place where people from Egypt and Arabia went to buy gum arabic, myrrh and ebony wood. The Ancient Egyptians used to call it Punt, which meant "God's Land". Somalis started herding camel and goats about 4,000 years ago, and they remain mostly herders today.

Visitors from as far away as China visited Somalia, including Zheng He.

400 more years later, the king of Ethiopia told his subjects that God hated Ifat, and he invaded Ifat with his army, destroying everything he came across and driving the king of Ifat to an island off the coast of Zeila, where he died. The king of Ethiopia then took part of Ifat and added it to his kingdom, and made Ifat pay him lots of money once a year. The remains of Ifat put their kingdom back together again and renamed it Adal.

About a hundred years later, the King of Adal was deposed by an influential warlord by the name of Ahmad ibn Ibrahim al-Ghazi, who had lots of influence with Somali clans across the north. He declared a jihad against Ethiopia, brought together a huge army that included Turkish musketeers and Somali cavalry. The Somali cavalry were especially deadly because they could shoot arrows while riding their horses, something that the Mongol hordes and Japanese Samurai are also famous for.

Ahmad chose a bad time, however, because the Portuguese Empire was muscling into East Africa. They had taken over the whole east African coast up to Baraawe, and were trying to take over Mogadishu. The Portuguese decided to help out the Ethiopians because the Ethiopians were Christians and the Portuguese did not like Muslims. Ahmad had taken over more than half of Ethiopia when a troop of Portuguese musketeers showed up to help the Ethiopians out. One Portuguese musketeer managed to shoot Ahmad himself, killing him.

A lot of the Somali cavalry was only there because of Ahmad, so the Jihad ended and Ethiopia wound up invading Adal. The Turks had to send an army to stop them from taking over Zeila, and Adal ended up becoming part of the Turkish Ottoman Empire. On those days we do not find the exact people dwell in Zeila, but the history ascribed the black people, without tracing their origin and their tribes. However, some historians attributed Zeila inhabitant were called semaale without farther lucid explanation.

The Turks and Portuguese fought over East Africa for the next 200 years, but the Turks eventually won about 270 years ago. Northern Somalia stayed under Turkish protection after Ahmad died, and the east coast including Mogadishu ended up under the protection of the King of Oman. When Egypt declared independence from the Turks a hundred years later, Northern Somalia became part of Egypt. Egypt came under British protection shortly after that, and northern Somalia basically became a British protectorate as well. This became official about 130 years ago, and northern Somalia officially became British Somaliland.

The Kingdom of Italy had just come together as one country around this time, and wanted the same things that the other big countries had, like colonies. Italy offered to buy the rights to the east Africa coast from Oman, who was in charge of protecting the cities and small kingdoms there, and Oman agreed. Italy made deals with some of the larger kingdoms/sultanates (like the Sultanate of Nugaal) for them to be under Italian protection, but the smaller ones Italy just invaded. This became Italian Somalia in 1905, with capital Mogadishu.

Ethiopia, which had fallen apart again after Ahmad's Jihad, had recently put itself back together again as well, and started invading small Somali kingdoms as well, and by 1890 there were not many left. The French got in on this too, but they just took over a small area which today is Djibouti.

Lots of Somalis did not like what was going on, so a Muslim religious leader named Mohammed Abdullah Hassan started a group called the Darwiish to fight the British, Italians and Ethiopians. The British called him the "Mad Mullah" and spent about 30 years fighting him, eventually using fighter planes against his cavalry. At their height the Darwiish controlled almost a third of Somalia.

Italy created a colony around Mogadishu and enlarged the territory of Italian Somalia after WW1 with the areas south of the Juba river. In the next 20 years the Italian colony grew in importance, having at Hafun the biggest salt production in the world and in the Scebeli river a huge production of bananas exported to Europe. In 1928 was created the first airport in Somalia's capital and later in 1939 was started the longest air route in Africa with the Linea dell'impero, a flight between Rome and Mogadishu.

When Benito Mussolini took power in Italy, he ended the deals he made with the bigger Somali sultanates and invaded them conquering all the area that was to be the colony of Italian Somalia. Then he invaded and took over Ethiopia, using poison gas on the Ethiopians. Shortly afterwards, World War 2 broke out and he invaded British Somaliland, but two years later the British returned and liberated British Somaliland and Ethiopia as well as taking over Italian Somaliland.

After the war, Britain wanted to put all of the places Somalis lived in one country, which would be a British protectorate. The Ethiopians complained that they should be able to keep the areas they conquered, and the Italians also complained the same thing, so in the end the Ethiopians got to keep their bit, and the Italians did too. However, Italian Somaliland was put under a United Nations mandate, so the Italians could not make it a colony.

In 1960 both British and Italian Somaliland declared independence together as the "Somali Republic". It was chosen the Latin alphabet for the Somali language. Many areas where Somalis lived were still part of Britain, Ethiopia and France. Somalia wanted to get back all the areas that had been colonized by the French, Ethiopians and British. Somalia and Ethiopia had a short war in 1964 over the Ethiopian part of Somalia, and it was obvious that more fighting was to come.

In 1969, the President of Somalia was killed by a man whose clan had been hurt by his policies, and General Mohammed Siad Barre took over the country. Siad Barre built a huge army with help from the Soviet Union and when Ethiopia fell for the fourth time (this time because of a communist takeover) he invaded. The Soviet Union decided that Ethiopia was more important than Somalia and double-crossed Siad Barre, supplying huge amounts of weapons to Ethiopia. Some other countries including Cuba and Israel also sent help to Ethiopia, so in the end Siad Barre lost the war.

Ethiopia's new government then began helping Somali rebel groups, who did not like how Siad Barre took over the country, and these rebel groups toppled Siad Barre' government in 1991 and forced him out of the country. After this, however, all of the rebel groups started fighting amongst themselves over who would be in charge now that Siad Barre was gone.

Eventually, some of the rebel groups decided to make their own governments in the land that they controlled. One, called Somaliland, declared independence from Somalia entirely, while another called Puntland declared independence "for now" until a new Somali national government can be put together. Dozens of attempts to create a new national government failed.

Because there was no government in most of Somalia (except where one had been built from scratch, like Puntland and Somaliland) Somalia's only legal system, beyond the law of the gun, was traditional custom and Islamic Sharia law. Because of this, Sharia legal scholars in the lawless south of Somalia gained quite a bit of influence. Around the same time, the people fighting for Somali lands in Ethiopia to be part of Somalia turned to the example of the Afghani Mujahideen, and created their own group called al-Ittihad al-Islamiyya or the Islamic Union. During the 1990s Ethiopia invaded Somalia several times to attack the Islamic Union, who were helping Somali rebels in Ethiopia.

After 2001, the United States of America became very suspicious of both the Sharia courts and the Islamic Union of being terrorists. Warlords made a group called the Alliance for the Restoration of Peace and Counter-Terrorism. The Sharia courts banded together to protect themselves and created the Islamic Courts Union. People liked the Sharia courts and hated the gangsters, so everyone helped the Islamic Courts Union, who defeated the gangsters and drove them out of Mogadishu in 2006. The Islamic Courts Union then formed an army and took over most of southern Somalia.

The United States of America and Ethiopia was alarmed by this takeover, so Ethiopia invaded southern Somalia in 2007 and put a new government in power that was made up of the rebel groups that Ethiopia had funded 15 years earlier. Almost everyone disagreed with this decision, and that same year a rebellion against this new government broke out in Mogadishu and spread across the whole country by 2008. At around the same time, Somali pirates kidnapped westerners from cargo ships and tourist boats for ransom. In 2006, jihadist group al-Shabaab began an insurgency.

Mel Blanc

Melvin Jerome Blanc (May 30, 1908 – July 10, 1989) was an American voice actor, radio personality and comedian. Nicknamed The Man of a Thousand Voices, he was best known for his voice roles such as in "Looney Tunes", Hanna-Barbera cartoons, and others.

Blanc was born on May 30, 1908 in San Francisco, California. He studied at Lincoln High School in San Francisco. He was married to Estelle Rosenbaum from 1933 until his death in 1989. He has one son. Blanc died on July 10, 1989 from heart disease, at age 81.


Conagra Brands

ConAgra Foods, Inc. is a food packing company that packs food for supermarkets, restaurants, and other businesses. It is located in North America.


IPod

The iPod is a discontinued range of portable music players designed by the company Apple Inc. in California. The iPod comes with computer cables so that the user can put music from their computer onto the iPod, and play music from it using headphones. Newer iPods allow a user to play games, view pictures, watch videos and use the internet, too.

The first iPod was named the iPod Classic. This iPod was released on October 23, 2001. Apple Inc. made the iPod like this until September 9, 2014.

Apple made a smaller iPod called the iPod mini. It was much smaller than the iPod Classic, but did not hold as many songs. It used flash memory, a special kind of memory for very small electronics, instead of a hard drive. It was replaced by a version of the iPod called the iPod nano.

Another type of iPod, called the iPod shuffle, was very small, and it used flash memory, like the iPod mini but it had no screen. It was the least expensive iPod.

The most expensive iPod is called the iPod touch. It has a touch screen, like the iPhone. It's very similar to the IPhone, but it's not a smartphone. The first generation of iPod touch was released on September 5, 2007 and was discontinued on May 10, 2022.

iPods often contain songs downloaded from an online music store, using a program called iTunes. (The name of Apple's music and video store is the iTunes Store.) Songs are sold in AAC file format, not MP3 or WMA. These are popular formats for compressing (making smaller) music until it does not take up much space and can easily be put on a media player such as the iPod.

The App Store is an online shop that is run by Apple Inc. where people can buy software for their iPhone or iPod Touch. It opened on July 11, 2008. Over 2 million applications (or apps for short) are available for people to buy. Some apps are available for free.


Costa Rica

Costa Rica (officially called Republic of Costa Rica), is a country in Central America. It is bordered by Nicaragua to the north, Panama to the southeast, the Pacific Ocean to the west, and the Caribbean Sea to the east. The official language of Costa Rica is Spanish. The official currency is the colón. It has enjoyed a long period of peace since the 1863 civil war. Because of its natural beauty and political stability, it is nicknamed the "Switzerland of Latin America". Costa Rica has had no army since December 1, 1948. Instead of spending money on the military, the government spends money on education and health.

5,094,118 people live in Costa Rica. The capital city is San José. The current President is Rodrigo Chaves. He was elected in 2022.

The indigenous people of Costa Rica belong to the Intermediate Area. This Intermediate Area is where the Mesoamerican and Andean indigenous cultures mixed together. The country was influenced by various Chibcha speaking indigenous people.

The impact of indigenous peoples' culture on modern Costa Rica has been small. The country did not have a strong native civilization to begin with. Most of the indigenous population was absorbed into the Spanish colony. There are still some small indigenous groups. The largest is the Bribri and Boruca tribes in south Costa Rica.

Christopher Columbus sailed to the eastern shores of Costa Rica during his last trip in 1502. He reported large amounts of gold jewelry among the indigenous people.

During the colonial period, Costa Rica was the most southern province of the Captaincy General of Guatemala. But it mostly ruled itself as a part of the Spanish Empire. Costa Rica's distance from the capital in Guatemala, its legal prohibition to trade with the Viceroyalty of New Granada, and the lack of gold and silver made Costa Rica into a poor, little populated region of the Spanish Empire. Costa Rica was called "the poorest and most miserable Spanish colony in all America" by a Spanish governor in 1719.

Costa Rica's poverty was also because there were not enough indigenous people available for slavery. Most of the Costa Rican settlers had to work on their own land. There were no large "haciendas" (plantations). For all these reasons, Costa Rica was unappreciated and forgotten by the Spanish Crown. It had to develop on its own.

Costa Rica became a "rural democracy" with no oppressed mestizo or indigenous class. It was not long before Spanish settlers turned to the hills, where they found rich volcanic soil and a better climate.

Costa Rica never fought for independence from Spain. On September 15, 1821, after the last Spanish defeat in the Mexican War of Independence (1810–21), the authorities in Guatemala declared the independence of all of Central America. That date is still celebrated as Independence Day in Costa Rica.

Costa Rica joined the First Mexican Empire of Agustín de Iturbide. After its collapse in 1823, Costa Rica became a province of the new Federal Republic of Central America. it existed from 1823 to 1839. It had a very loose authority over its provinces, especially the poor and remote Costa Rica.

In 1824, the Costa Rican capital was moved to San José. This led to a brief battle with the old capital, Cartago.

While civil wars were common in the Federal Republic of Central America, Costa Rica was largely peaceful.

In 1838, Costa Rica formally proclaimed itself an independent country. The local population had little allegiance to the federal government in Guatemala. From colonial times to now, Costa Rica's reluctance to become politically tied with the rest of Central America has been a major obstacle to efforts for greater regional integration.

Coffee was first planted in Costa Rica in the early 19th century. It was first shipped to Europe in 1843. It became Costa Rica's first major export. Coffee would remain Costa Rica's biggest export until the 20th century.

Most of the coffee exported was transported by oxcart to the Pacific port of Puntarenas. Since the main market for the coffee was in Europe, it soon became a high priority to develop a transportation route from the Central Plateau to the Atlantic Ocean. For this purpose, in the 1870s, the Costa Rican government asked U.S. businessman Minor C. Keith to build a railroad to the Caribbean port of Limón. Despite enormous difficulties with construction, disease, and financing, the railroad was completed in 1890.

Most Afro-Costa Ricans come from Jamaican immigrants who worked on the railway. United States convicts, Italians and Chinese immigrants also worked in the construction of the railroad.

In exchange for making the railroad, Costa Rican gave Keith large amounts of land and a lease on the train route, which he used to produce bananas and export them to the United States. As a result, bananas became the largest export. The United Fruit Company began to hold a major role in the national economy.

Costa Rica has enjoyed greater peace and political stability than other Latin American nations.

But in 1917–19, General Federico Tinoco Granados ruled as a military dictator until he was overthrown. The unpopularity of Tinoco's government led to a considerable decline in the size, wealth, and political influence of the Costa Rican military.

In 1948, José Figueres Ferrer led an armed uprising between the previous president Rafael Ángel Calderón Guardia (he served as president between 1940 and 1944) and Otilio Ulate Blanco. With more than 2,000 dead, the 44-day Costa Rican Civil War was the bloodiest event in Costa Rica during the 20th century.

The victorious rebels formed a government that abolished the military. It oversaw the drafting of a new constitution by a democratically elected assembly. Having enacted these reforms, the junta relinquished its power on November 8, 1949, to the new democratic government. After that, Figueres became a national hero, winning the country's first democratic election under the new constitution in 1953. Since then, Costa Rica has held 14 presidential elections, the latest in 2020. All of them have been widely regarded by the international community as peaceful and transparent.

Costa Rica is on the Central American isthmus. It is between latitudes 8° and 12°N, and longitudes 82° and 86°W. It borders the Caribbean Sea to the east and the Pacific Ocean to the west. It has a total of of coastline. Costa Rica also borders Nicaragua to the north ( of border) and Panama to the southeast ( of border). In total, Costa Rica has plus of territorial waters.

The highest point in the country is Cerro Chirripó, at . The largest lake in Costa Rica is Lake Arenal.

Costa Rica is located between 8 and 12 degrees north of the Equator. The climate is tropical all year. The country has many microclimates depending on elevation, rainfall, and the geography of each region.

Costa Rica's seasons are defined by how much rain falls. It does not have the four seasons other countries have. The year can be split into two seasons: the dry season (known as summer), and the rainy season (known as winter). The "summer" starts in December and ends in April. "Winter" starts in May and ends in November. During this time it rains constantly in some regions.

The location receiving the most rain is the Caribbean. Annual rainfall is over . Humidity is also higher here. The mean annual temperature on the coast is around . in the main populated areas, and below on the highest mountains.

There are many national parks in Costa Rica, including Manuel Antonio National Park.

Costa Rica is home to many plants and animals. The country has only about 0.25% of the world's landmass, but it has 5% of the world's biodiversity. Almost 25% of Costa Rica's land area is in national parks and protected areas. This is the largest percentage of protected areas in the world.

Costa Rica successfully reduced deforestation. It had one of the worst deforestation rates in the world from 1973 to 1989. But it was almost zero by 2005.

The Corcovado National Park is internationally known by ecologists for its biodiversity. Visitors can see many different types of animals. An example is the big cats and tapirs. Corcovado is the only park in Costa Rica where all four Costa Rican monkeys can be found. These include the white-headed capuchin, the mantled howler,the endangered Geoffroy's spider monkey and the Central American squirrel monkey. The squirrel monkey is found only on the Pacific coast of Costa Rica and a small part of Panama.

Tortuguero National Park is home to spider, howler, and white-throat Capuchin monkeys. It is also the home of three-toed sloth and two-toed sloth. It has 320 species of birds and many reptiles. There is an annual nesting of the endangered green turtle, and is the most important nesting site for the species. Giant leatherback, hawksbill, and loggerhead turtles also nest here.

The Monteverde Cloud Forest Reserve is home to almost 2,000 plant species. Including many orchids. It is also home to more than 400 types of birds. There are more than 100 species of mammals here.

Costa Rica is a center of biological diversity for reptiles and amphibians. They have the world's fastest running lizard, the spiny-tailed iguana ("Ctenosaura similis").

Article 168 of the Constitution of Costa Rica says the political divisions are classified into 3 groups: provinces, cantons, and districts.
Costa Rica has seven provinces. The provinces are divided into 81 cantons. The canton is directed by a mayor. Mayors are chosen democratically every four years by the canton's people. There are no provincial legislatures. The cantons are further divided into 463 districts.

The provinces are:

Costa Rica entered the Summer Olympics for the first time in 1936 with the fencer Bernardo de la Guardia. They entered the Winter Olympics for the first time in 1980 with the skier Arturo Kinch. All four of Costa Rica's Olympic medals were won by the sisters Silvia and Claudia Poll in swimming. Claudia won the country's only gold medal in 1996.

Association football is the most popular sport in Costa Rica. The national team has played in four FIFA World Cup tournaments. They reached the quarter-finals for the first time in 2014. Its best performance in the regional CONCACAF Gold Cup was runner-up in 2002.



