Gary Busey


William Gary Busey (born June 29, 1944) is an American actor. He has appeared in many movies and television shows since the 1970s. In 1988, He was involved in a motorcycle accident, but he recovered. He was born in Goose Creek, Texas and grew up in Oklahoma. He was a heavy cocaine user for many years, before giving it up and becoming a born-again Christian. His elder son Jake Busey (born 1971) is also an actor.

Busey was a contestant in two celebrity series of "The Apprentice" (2011 and 2013). He won the August-September 2014 series of "Celebrity Big Brother" "UK".

Montana

Montana is a state in the United States. Its capital is Helena, and the largest city is Billings. Montana has many mountains in the western half of the state. Most of the eastern part of the state is prairie.

Montana is the fourth largest state by area, the seventh least populous, and the third least densely populated of the 50 states.

Montana and Canada share a 545-mile (877-km) part of the world's longest undefended (which means there are no soldiers or armies on either side) border. The state borders the Canadian provinces of British Columbia, Alberta, and Saskatchewan, more provinces than any other U.S. state.

To the east of Montana is North Dakota; to the southeast is a short border with South Dakota. In the south is Wyoming, and on the west and southwest is Idaho.

The first people to settle in Montana were the Native Americans.

In 2018, The top countries of origin for immigrants were Canada (15 percent of immigrants), Mexico (15 percent), Germany (7 percent), China (5 percent), and Vietnam (5 percent).


At one point, Montana was liberal in federal elections and conservative in state elections. Today, the opposite is true. Although Montana is very conservative in presidential elections (it has not voted for a Democrat since 1964), it is more liberal than most states in the upper Rocky Mountains region. As one example of this, Montana is represented by one Democrat and one Republican in the Senate. There are no Democratic senators from Utah, Idaho, Wyoming, North Dakota or South Dakota. The Montana House of Representatives, which has 100 members, includes 58 Republicans and 42 Democrats, making it more liberal than any state legislature in Wyoming or Idaho.


List of seas

The sea is the interconnected system of all the Earth's oceanic waters, including the Atlantic, Pacific, Indian, Southern and Arctic Oceans. However, the word "sea" can also be used for many specific, much smaller bodies of seawater, such as the North Sea or the Red Sea.There are 78 seas in the world







