Omaha, Nebraska


Omaha is a major US city located in the state of Nebraska in the center of the United States. The city is home to 486,051 people, making it the 39th largest city in the United States as of 2020. It is also the state's largest city both in population and geography.

Omaha is known for its Indie music scene. Bright Eyes and 311 are some of the most well known bands to come out of the city. Local music venues include the Slowdown in NoDo and The Waiting Room in Benson.

Connor Oberst, lead singer of Bright Eyes, started Saddle Creek Records in Omaha. The label is named after a street in Midtown Omaha, despite the label being housed in downtown. Saddle Creek Records is the owner of the Slowdown.

Omaha is home to a number national and global headquarters including TD Ameritrade, Berkshire Hathaway, Con Agra Foods, Mutual of Omaha, Woodmen of the World, and Hayneedle. First National Bank of Omaha's headquarters are located downtown at One First National Place, the state's largest building. Billionaire Warren Buffett calls the city home and hosts the annual Berkshire Hathaway shareholders meeting at the Century Link Center in downtown Omaha.

The city hosts the College World Series every year at TD Ameritrade Park, since 2011. The series was formerly hosted at Rosenblatt Stadium prior to its condemnation in September 2010 and subsequent demolition in late 2012. The Series was first held in Omaha in 1947.

Omaha has a humid continental climate (Dfa in the Koeppen climate classification). Summers are hot and quite wet; winters are cold and quite dry.

Toledo, Spain

Toledo is a city in Spain with a population of 85,000. It is a historical city with a lot of monuments. The city was important from the Roman period to the 18th century. It is the capital of the autonomous community of Castile-La Mancha and the Toledo province. Many famous people and artists were born or lived in this city, including Garcilaso de la Vega, Alfonso X and El Greco. A city in Ohio was named after this.


Tommy Tutone

Tommy Tutone was a 1980s pop music group. They are best known for their 1982 song "867-5309-Jenny".



