1701


1701 was a common year starting on Saturday in the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Wednesday in the Julian calendar. It was the first year of the 18th century.


Harpsichord

Harpsichords are keyboard instruments that make sound by having the strings plucked with a plectrum. They are thought to have originated when a keyboard was attached to a psaltery. This makes them different from a clavichord where the strings are hit. The piano is therefore closer to a clavichord than a harpsichord. On a piano it is possible to play louder or quieter by playing the keys with more or less force. On a harpsichord the volume (playing louder or softer) cannot be controlled by the way it is played. However, some large harpsichords have several "stops", each one giving a different kind of sound. The largest harpsichords have two manuals (keyboards) which gives more variety. It makes it possible for the right hand to play the tune on one manual while the left hand plays an accompaniment more quietly on the other.

Some small harpsichords were called "virginals", perhaps because they were played by young girls. There are also spinets which were very small and sometimes wing-shaped. They could be picked up and put on a table.

Harpsichords were very important in music from the Renaissance and Baroque periods. They were used as solo instruments as well as to accompany an orchestra. Some of the most famous composers of harpsichord music are William Byrd (1543-1623), François Couperin (1668-1733), Domenico Scarlatti (1685-1757) and Johann Sebastian Bach (1685-1750). The last of these composers wrote "The Well-Tempered Clavier", which has a prelude and fugue in every major and minor key. It is said that Bach wrote this collection of music to show how keyboard instruments like the harpsichord can be tuned in a way to make playing in any key possible.

The Kingston Trio

The Kingston Trio was a folk music group from Palo Alto, California who were popular in the 1950s and 1960s.

The Passion of the Christ

The Passion of the Christ is the title of a movie that was produced and directed by Mel Gibson based on sister Catherine Emmerich's visions. It was released in 2004. The movie shows the last 24 hours in the life of Jesus of Nazareth (called by his followers Jesus Christ) as told in the Gospel accounts contained in the New Testament that Christians regard as a part of the Holy Bible.

"The Passion of the Christ" was unusual and controversial for many reasons. All of the speech was in three languages that were spoken at the time of Jesus: Latin, Greek and Hebrew. The movie spent a lot of time showing details of the suffering and death of Jesus, with lots of violent scenes. Mel Gibson said that this was a realistic showing of what happened, though others thought it showed too much violence.

Jewish groups and Christians objected to the movie because it showed the Jewish leaders arranging to have Jesus killed. There were also other depictions in the film of Jews that many Jews and Christians felt was controversial. They said that this would cause people to think that modern-day Jews were guilty because of this and increase antisemitism and inaccurate beliefs of Jews. The movie makers said that this was not their intention, however criticism from both sides continued and still persists to this day.

Mel Gibson was unable to get support from movie studios for this movie, and so supplied the money for it (around $25 million) mostly himself. The movie made much more money than expected -around $370 million.

Depression

Depression might mean:


Cavalry

Historically, cavalry have been soldiers who fought while riding horses. In modern times, "cavalry" means the branch of the military that fight in armored vehicles such as tanks. They differ from the infantry in that the Infantry fight on foot.

Soldiers have fought on horses ever since people have ridden horses. Before that, they fought in chariots pulled by horses. Because horses are strong, cavalry troops can wear more armor than infantry and carry heavier weapons. Because horses are fast, cavalry can ride into battle more quickly than infantry.

Zachary Taylor

Zachary Taylor (November 24, 1784 – July 9, 1850) was the 12th president of the United States. He served as president from 1849 until his death in 1850. He was a second cousin to James Madison.

Taylor was a general in the United States Army. He led an army during the Mexican-American War. He was selected by the Whigs to be their candidate because he was a famous general. He was the last President to own slaves while in office.

During his term, slavery was a big issue because the Northerners wanted no slavery in the U.S. and wanted to stop newly formed states from allowing slavery. The southerners believed that they had the right to keep their slaves and people feared that they would choose to not be a part of the United States anymore (which they would eventually do in 1860).

Taylor did not like the idea of the southern states leaving the United States at all. He threatened to use military force against them if they were to do that.

Taylor never voted until he was 62 years old. He was never a resident of a particular location in the United States long enough to register to vote.

Sixteen months into his presidency, Taylor died of cholera and his vice-president Millard Fillmore became president to take his place.

The Compromise of 1850 (a proposal several laws that would calm down the slavery issue by pleasing both the north and the south) was voted on in Congress shortly after his death. This was negotiated by Kentucky's Congressman, Henry Clay, who was a distant cousin of the Taylors and Lincolns.


Gianni Rodari

Gianni Rodari (October 23, 1920 in Omegna (Novara) - April 14, 1980 in Rome) was an Italian writer. He was famous for his books for children.

Montgomery, Alabama

Montgomery is the capital city of the state of Alabama in the United States. It is on the Alabama River. In 2020, 200,603 people lived there, making it the second-most populated city in Alabama after Birmingham which had 230,733. Huntsville, Alabama had only 215,000.

Montgomery was started on December 3, 1819 by merging New Philadelphia and East Alabama Town. The city became a county seat in 1822. On January 28, 1846, the state capital was moved from Tuscaloosa to Montgomery. For a few months in 1861 Montgomery was the capital of the Confederate States of America.



