Niuatoputapu


Niuatoputapu is an island in Tonga. It has a population of about 1200 people. Niuatoputapu is located in the north of the country, near to Samoa.

Samoa

The Independent State of Samoa is a country in the Pacific Ocean. It became independent from New Zealand in 1962. It has two islands, including Upolu and Savai'i. The capital of Samoa is Apia. It is on the island of Upolu. The head of the country is Va'aletoa Sualauvi II. 

The languages spoken in Samoa include Samoan and English. 

The sport that is most popular in Samoa is Rugby, and many Samoan people play Rugby.

Samoa was admitted to the United Nations on 18 September 1962.

A measles outbreak began in October 2019 and continued through December. As of December 28, there were 81 deaths out of 5667 cases. 

Samoa has eleven political districts. These are called "itūmālō". These are the traditional eleven districts that were made well before European arrival.

Samoa is south of the equator. It is about halfway between Hawai‘i and New Zealand in the Polynesian part of the Pacific Ocean. The main island of Upolu is home to nearly three-quarters of Samoa's people

The two large islands of Upolu and Savai'i are 99% of the total land area. There are eight small islets. These are the three islets in the Apolima Strait: Manono Island, Apolima and Nu'ulopa. There are four Aleipata Islands off the eastern end of Upolu. They are: Nu'utele, Nu'ulua, Namua, and Fanuatapu. And there is Nu'usafe'e.

East of Samoa is a group of islands called American Samoa. They are part of the United States, but they are similar to the country Samoa, because they also speak Samoan.

Samoa used to be east of the international date line. In 2011, the line changed, so that Samoa would be to the west of the date line. This change took effect on the night of 29 December. Friday was skipped altogether and the following day was Saturday 31 December. 

Samoa has 194,320 people. 92.6% are Samoans, 7% Euronesians (people of mixed, European and Polynesian ancestors) and 0.4% are Europeans.

Religion in Samoa includes the following: Christian Congregational Church of Samoa 35.5%, Roman Catholic 19.6%, Methodist 15%, Latter-day Saints 12.7%, Samoan Assemblies of God 10.6%, Seventh-day Adventist 3.5%, Worship Centre 1.3%, unspecified 0.8%.There is also about 522 Jehovah's Witnessses in Samoa since 1931. Samoa has one of seven Bahá'í Houses of Worship in the world. It is in Tiapapata.
Many people say that Samoan people are related to Māori people because lots of the language words are very similar to Maori language.

As with other Polynesian cultures (Hawai'ian, Tahitian and Māori), Samoans have two gender specific and culturally important tattoos. For males, it is called the Pe'a, It is intricate and geometrical patterns tattooed on areas from the knees up towards the ribs. A male who has such a tatau is called a soga'imiti. A Samoan girl or "teine" is given a malu. It covers the area from just below her knees to her upper thighs.

Davy Jones (musician)

David Thomas "Davy" Jones (December 30, 1945 – February 29, 2012) was an English singer and actor. He was born in Manchester, England. 

His father wanted him to be a jockey, but he wanted to be a performer. He appeared in the television programme, "Coronation Street" and in the London and Broadway versions of "Oliver!". In 1966, he joined The Monkees, a musical group created for a television series of the same name. The series was cancelled in 1968 and the group disbanded in 1970. 

Jones continued to perform until his death from a heart attack caused by atherosclerosis in 2012 in Stuart, Florida.

Michael Nesmith

Robert Michael Nesmith (December 30, 1942 – December 10, 2021) was an American musician, songwriter, actor, producer, novelist, businessman and philanthropist.

Nesmith was born in Dallas, Texas on December 30, 1942. His mother, Bette Nesmith Graham invented Liquid Paper in 1951 and made the family very rich.

In the 1960s, Nesmith moved to Los Angeles to start a recording career. He wrote the song "Different Drum" which was a hit for Linda Ronstadt and the Stone Poneys. In 1966, he became a member of the Monkees, a made-for-TV rock band. He left the group in 1969 and started a solo career.

Nesmith is considered one of the forefathers of the country-rock movement of the 1970s with his song "Joanne".He produced albums such as loose salute and magnetic south with the first national band. Nesmith was known for his diamond suit, hat and cowboy boots that are currently on display at the country hall of fame. He also worked as a producer and is considered one of the pioneers of the music video industry. Nesmith's 1981 video-movie "Elephant Parts" won the first Grammy Award for a music video

Nesmith died from heart failure at his home in Carmel Valley, California on December 10, 2021, at the age of 78.

Peter Tork

Peter Halsten Thorkelson (February 13, 1942 – February 21, 2019), better known as Peter Tork, was an American actor and musician. He was born in Washington, D.C. He started as a folk musician in Greenwich Village. In 1966, he became famous as a member of The Monkees. He was recommended for the group by his friend Stephen Stills. Shortly after The Monkees television series ended 1968, he left the band. He played with the other members of the group at times, but often played with his own bands and tours.

Tork died on February 21, 2019 in Mansfield, Connecticut, aged 77. He suffered from a rare form of throat cancer in the years before his death.

Micky Dolenz

George Michael Dolenz, Jr. (born March 8, 1945), better known as Micky Dolenz is an American actor, singer, director, and voice artist. He is most famous as a member of The Monkees.

Goldstar beer

Goldstar is an Israeli beer that has been brewed in Israel since the 1950s.
It is defined as a Munich-style beer. Goldstar contains 4.9% alcohol.

Dominique de Villepin

Dominique Marie François René Galouzeau de Villepin (born November 14, 1953), simply known as Dominique de Villepin, was Premier (or Prime Minister) of France from 31 May 2005 to 17 May 2007. He was made Premier by Jacques Chirac after the French President removed Jean-Pierre Raffarin from the premiership. Raffarin failed to gain the support of the French people for the European Constitution.

Dominique de Villepin said that his government's most important task would be job creation. He knew that the French people were concerned about the condition of the French economy. This was one of the reasons they had voted against the European Constitution in the referendum on 29 May 2005.

On 15 May 2007, the last full day of President Jacques Chirac's term, Villepin gave his resignation from the office of Prime Minister and it was accepted by the President. He was replaced two days later by François Fillon.

Francis Drake

Vice Admiral Sir Francis Drake (1540 – 27 January 1596) was an English sea captain, privateer, navigator, slaver, and politician of the Elizabethan era. He was born in Tavistock and grew up in Kent, where he learned to be a sailor. Soon he was a shipmaster (captain). Queen Elizabeth I awarded Drake a knighthood in 1581, which he received on the Golden Hind in Deptford. He was second-in-command of the English fleet against the Spanish Armada in 1588. He also carried out the second circumnavigation of the world, from 1577 to 1580 during which he attacked towns of the Spanish Empire. He had always been a powerful enemy to the Spanish.

He died of dysentery in January 1596 after he had unsuccessfully attacked San Juan, Puerto Rico.

His exploits were legendary. He was a hero to the English but a pirate to the Spaniards. King Philip II was reported to have offered a reward of 20,000 ducats, today worth about £4,000,000 (about US $6,500,000) for him to be killed.

House of Commons of the United Kingdom

The House of Commons is the lower house of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It is made up of Members of Parliament elected by the people. Sometimes it is called the 'lower house'. (The 'upper house' is called the House of Lords.) Other countries also have a bicameral parliament with a House of Commons working in the same way.

In the British parliament, there are 650 Members of Parliament or MPs. Each MP represents a constituency, which covers an area of the country. The people of each constituency vote at a general election or a by-election to choose one person to represent them in the House of Commons. Usually, the people choose someone who belongs to a political party. When all the parties get together, the party or coalition with the most members is the government and runs the country. The leader of that party is called the Prime Minister. 

The House of Commons hold their meetings in the Palace of Westminster. Their chief officer is the Speaker of the House, who is elected by MPs. The current Speaker is Lindsay Hoyle, who was elected in 2019. The Clerk of the House of Commons is the Principal Adviser to the Speaker. The Serjeant-at-Arms is in charge of the security.

Wank

Wank is a mountain in the Bavarian Alps, by Garmisch-Partenkirchen in Germany, close to the Austrian border.
Wank is 1780m tall, and has a cable car, the "Wankbahn", which takes people almost all the way to the top. Near the peak, there is an inn called the "Wankhaus" which was built in 1911 that allows people to spend the night.

1685

Year 1685 was a common year that started on a Monday when using the Gregorian calendar.





