Dian Fossey


Dian Fossey (January 16, 1932 – December 26, 1985) was an American zoologist. She is best known for studying gorillas in Rwanda.

Fossey was inspired by a book called "The Mountain Gorilla" by George Schaller. Fossey studied mountain gorillas in Rwanda because of the book. When people want to get close to gorillas and get to know them they have to gain the gorillas trust. Fossey changed her lifestyle to match the gorillas’. She wanted to protect the gorillas from hunters. Hunters were going into places where to one was allowed to hunt. She also wanted to protect the endangered animals in the area, even though some people didn’t agree with her ideas. She is a hero to many people for what she did to help mountain gorillas. There is a movie that was made based on what she experienced in Africa. The movie is called "Gorillas in the Mist". Her book, also named "Gorillas in the Mist", is the best-selling book on gorillas of all time.

She is recognized for saving mountain gorillas and starting a successful fund to help raise money for gorillas everywhere.

Fossey was born in San Francisco. She was an only child. She was very lonely as a child. Her parents divorced when she was six years old. Fossey loved animals since childhood but she was never allowed to have a pet.

She attended the University of California in Davis. At college she was in a veterinary program. She transferred schools to San Jose State University after two years. Fossey earned a bachelor degree of arts degree in occupational therapy. She became a very good horseback rider in college. She worked at a hospital in Kentucky for disabled children. Fossey was inspired by a book about mountain gorillas. She decided to travel to Africa to study gorillas. She met Louis Leakey who is a famous anthropologist. Leakey hired Fossey to study gorillas. Fossey observed gorillas for many years. Fossey later earned a PhD from Cambridge College in England. The PhD was for her gorilla research.

Fossey was found dead in her house on December 26, 1985 at the age of 53. Reports think that she was killed by poachers. Her head was cut by a panga, a weapon used by poachers. Fossey was buried at the site she created as a graveyard for the gorillas. 

Fossey studied the lives of mountain gorillas for 18 years. She was the world’s expert on mountain gorillas. Her dedication allowed for mountain gorillas to continue as a species. Some of the people who lived in the area did not like her because of her thoughts on how the gorillas should be treated. She did not want them to be in zoos, harassed by tourists, harmed or killed for meat.

Maryland

Maryland is a state in the mid-Atlantic region of the United States of America. Its capital is Annapolis, and its most populous city is Baltimore.

The governor of Maryland is Wes Moore. He was elected in the 2022 election. Moore is the first Black governor of Maryland and the third Black governor in United States history.

The state bird is the Baltimore Oriole. The state flower is the Black-eyed Susan ("Rudbeckia hirta"). The state reptile is the diamondback terrapin. The state crustacean is the blue crab. The state motto is "Fatti maschii, parole femine", which is Italian for "Manly deeds, womanly words". Maryland is the only state with a motto in Italian.

Maryland has many places important to the American Revolutionary War, the War of 1812, and the American Civil War. One of these places is Fort McHenry, which defended against the British Empire during the War of 1812. Another place is the Antietam National Battlefield, where the Battle of Antietam took place in 1862 during the American Civil War.

Silver Spring, Bethesda, Gaithersburg, Rockville, Frederick, Hagerstown, Cumberland, Salisbury, Greenbelt are other cities.

Maryland was founded by English Catholic settlers who wanted a place where they could freely practice Catholicism. It was the seventh state to join the US. Maryland is known as the "Old Line State," named after the Maryland Line, a regiment that fought in the American Revolution. Maryland surrounds most of the Chesapeake Bay, and the state is known for its Crabs and Crab Cakes.

Baltimore, the largest city in Maryland, is a major city that is home to the National Aquarium, Fort McHenry, and the Camden Yards baseball park. Annapolis is very famous for being the home of the United States Naval Academy, one of the flagship service academies in the United States.

Maryland was home to several different Indian tribes when English settlers arrived in the seventeenth century. The Algonquian-speaking Indians of the Chesapeake Bay and coastal areas included the Nanticoke, Piscataway, Assateagues and Pocomoke Indians. Iroquois-speaking groups such as the Susquehannocks lived in the Piedmont and mountains.



