Corinth


Corinth is a city in Greece. It gave its name to the Corinth Canal. This is in the middle of the Isthmus of Corinth, a narrow strip of land which joins the Peloponnese peninsula with mainland Greece. It has a castle called the acrocorinth. Corinth is in the north of Peloponnese. It is a coastal city. It had 60,000 people at the 2011 census. 

During antiquity, Corinth was one of the most important Greek cities. It was often the opponent of Athens and these two cities competed with each other. It founded many colonies in south Italy and Sicily such as Siracusa. Corinth was conquered by Romans in 146 B.C. Two epistles of Paul the Apostle to the Corinthian Christians are in the Bible.

The modern city of Corinth is about 5 kilometres (3.1 mi) northeast of the ancient ruins. Since 1896, the Corinth excavations by the American School of Classical Studies at Athens have revealed large parts of the ancient city. Recent excavations by the Greek Ministry of Culture have brought to light important new discoveries.

During Middle Ages, it was an important city with a fortification. In 1460 it came under Turkish rule and it was liberated in 1830, after the Greek War of Independence.

Cross

The Christian cross is the main symbol of the Christian religion. These crosses are usually found on Christian churches. 

Jesus, who many Christians believe is God the Son and their Messiah, was crucified (nailed to a large wooden cross). This was a commonly used method for killing people in Roman times. 

Christians believe that Jesus' death made the sins of all humans who trust in him, go away, and that they are forgiven. They also believe that Jesus was resurrected (came back to life) after three days. Because of this, the cross is a symbol for Jesus' sacrifice and suffering, but also a symbol of hope, forgiveness of sins, and victory over death.

There are several different Christian crosses that are symbols for different Christian groups or persons.

A cross with the body of Jesus on it is called a Crucifix.

The empty cross is usually favoured by Protestants and Eastern Orthodox, and the symbol reminds them of the Resurrection of Jesus, though the Orthodox will add a slanted footbar, as well. The crucifix is favoured by Catholic churches and is a reminder of Christ's sacrifice. Jehovah's Witnesses believe that Jesus died on a simple upright pole, a "torture stake" ; and only display it as a picture of an impaled Jesus in their literature.

Christians remember the death of Jesus on the cross on Good Friday every year.

The most common cross is the Latin Cross. The cross represents and memorializes Christ's death.

This cross is a symbol of hope over death, and of victory in returning to life. (See Philippians 2:8-9)

The non-Christian religion of Scientology, also uses the Latin cross (but with a star in the middle) as its symbol.


Peloponnese

The Peloponnese is a large peninsula in Greece. It is the part of Greece which is south of the Isthmus of Corinth.

The Peloponnese has many mountains and a long jagged coastline. The highest part is Mount Taygetus in the south. 

There are four south-pointing peninsulas within the Peloponnese. They are called Messenia, the Mani Peninsula, Epidaurus, and the Argolid.

There are also two groups of islands near the Peloponnese. In the east there are the Argo-Saronic Islands and in the west there are the Ionian Islands. There is also the island of Kythira, which is near to the Epidaurus peninsula. Kythira is often thought of as part of the Ionian Islands.

The Peloponnese has had people living on it since prehistoric times. Its name means "Island of Pelops". Pelops was a person from Greek mythology, who took over the island. During the Middle Ages and the Ottoman Empire, the peninsula was known as the Morea.

Isthmus of Corinth

The Isthmus of Corinth is a narrow bit of land which connects the Peloponnese peninsula with mainland Greece. It is near to the city of Corinth. The narrow Corinthian Canal cuts through the isthmus, connecting the Aegean Sea to the Gulf of Corinth.

Tripoli

Tripoli is a city in northwest Libya. It is the capital of the country. More than three million people live in the metropolitan area. 

Originally a Phoenician colony, Tripoli became in turn part of Greek and Roman Cyrenaica, a pirate port, a part of the Ottoman Empire, and the capital of the Italian empire in North Africa. 

Argos

Argos is a city in south Greece, the capital of Argos-Mycenae Municipality. It is in the Argolis prefecture, which is on the Peloponnese peninsula. It is named after the child of Zeus and Niobe in Greek mythology. It is the biggest city in Argolida prefecture but the capital of prefecture is Nauplion. Argos is very historical city. The first residents arrived more than 7,000 years ago. It is considered the oldest city in Greece from ancient Greek writers. 

The city houses numerous archaeological monuments. Agriculture is an important sector of the local economy. 

Sparta

Sparta was a Greek city-state. It is the capital of the Laconia prefecture. It is in the south of Peloponnese peninsula. During antiquity, it was extremely powerful. Today, it is a small city. 16,726 people lived there according to the 2001 census. 

It was also known as Lacedaemon.

The word "Spartan" is used to describe somebody who lives a simple life or somebody who suffered a lot without crying or showing that they suffered. It can also mean a life of simplicity, without anything fancy or costly.

Sparta is in the mountainous region of Laconia. This is in the south-east of the Peloponnese. Ancient Sparta was built on the banks of the Evrotas River. The river flows through a valley with mountains on each side. To the west is the Taygetus Range (highest point 2407 m) and to the east is the Parnon Range (highest point 1935 m). Because the ancient Spartans had such good natural defenses, they did not need city walls.

In Ancient Greece, Sparta was a city-state with a very strong army and a government that was well led. Sparta was known as one of the strongest city-states in Greece. Only the strongest survived in Sparta, male or female. The Spartans killed weak children. If they believed that a baby was too weak, they left it out to die of exposure beside a slope on Mount Taygetus. This place was called the "Apothetae", which meant 'the place of rejection'.

Sparta had a government with checks and balances. The executive branch was led by two kings. The legislative branch was led by the citizens. and the judicial branch was controlled by the elders. There was also a committee of five men who were in charge of the education process that young boys and girls went through. Boys and girls were taken from their parents at the age of 7. Boys went to live in barracks with other boys their age. Girls went to school to learn gymnastics, wrestling, and other activities, so they could become strong, healthy mothers for future soldiers.

"Laconophilia" is love or liking of Sparta and of the Spartan culture. Sparta was often admired when it ruled. Long ago, "Many of the noblest and best of the Athenians always considered (thought) the Spartan state nearly as an ideal theory realised in practice". Many Greek philosophers, especially Platonists, would often describe Sparta as a good state, strong, brave, and free.

Sparta was also seen as a model of social purity by Revolutionary and Napoleonic France.

Adolf Hitler thought Sparta was very good. He said in 1928 that Germany should be like them by making smaller "the number allowed to live". The Spartans had created "the first racialist state".

Young Spartans boys were taken from their homes at the age of seven to begin a military life. The Spartans became soldiers at age 20, citizens at age 30, and retired at age 60. Men trained hard to become warriors of the Spartan army. Women were encouraged to keep healthy so that they could produce healthy, fit babies to grow up to be strong. Spartans saw little moral value in the concept of childbirth; unless the child was fit to become a Spartan, he would die.

Spartan men married when they were 30 years old. Plutarch writes of the strange custom of the Spartans for their wedding night:
The custom was to capture women for marriage...The...'bridesmaid' took charge of the captured girl. She first shaved her head...then dressed her in a man's cloak and sandals, and laid her down alone on a mattress in the dark. The bridegroom...first had dinner...then would slip in...lift her and carry her to the bed. The husband kept on visiting his wife in secret for some time after the marriage. Only Spartans did these customs. Some people think that the cutting off of the wife's hair was a ceremony that showed she was going into a new life.

Sparta conquered the people of Messenia and Lakonia (the surrounding countryside) at around 680560 BC. These people became known as the "helots". They were "not" slaves: they were serfs. They had a lower position in society, like serfs in mediaeval Europe.

Helots spent their lives farming their Spartan masters "kleros" (land granted to Spartan citizens). The Spartan poet Tyrtaios says helots were allowed to marry and keep half the fruits of their labor. At most times, the helots outnumbered their Spartan masters 10 to 1. They rebelled often, but they were never able to overthrow their oppressors. 

Once a Spartan reached the age of 20, he or she would then become a "homoios". A homoios was a member of the ruling class (a citizen). Both men and women were citizens. Sparta was an unusual society for women's rights, because women were considered to be equal. 

The Spartan army used the phalanx formation. This contributed to the many battles Sparta won. Their most famous loss is the Battle of Thermopylae where 300 Spartans held off a large Persian army for a week.

Olympia

Olympia ( "Olympía") was a place in ancient Greece. It was in Elis, which is now called Ilia; and is in the east of the city Pyrgos. It was the site of the Olympic Games in classical times, the most famous games in history. The Olympic Games were held every four years throughout Classical Antiquity, from the 8th century BC to the 4th century AD. The first Olympic Games were in honour of Zeus.

Olympia was a sanctuary, consisting of various buildings. These included a hippodrome, Palaestra, Gymnasium and several temples. The Olympic Games began here in 776 BC. They were founded by king Pelopas. They happened every four years, in the summers. All the ancient Greek towns competed. The winners of the Olympic games were important people. The Olympic games were abolished in 394 AD by the Christian Roman emperor Theodosius I, who declared that all Pagan religious practices should end.

During ancient history, Olympia was a powerful and rich town. It ruled over the west of Peloponnese. Olympia kept its strength and during Roman period. During the Middle Ages it was an unimportant city.

The Gymnasium at Olympia was a large, open air, quadrangle surrounded on all four sides by colonnades of the Doric order. Only the southern and eastern sides survive. They date to the second century BC. The River Kladeos has destroyed the western side. The gymnasium was used by runners and pentathlon athletes for training. Athletes trained in the nude. In bad weather, training took place under the eastern colonnade (210.51 meters) and the other three colonnades. Little of the gymnasium has been excavated. About 200 BC, a portico of the Corinthian order was built to join the gymnasium and the palaestra.

The Hippodrome was the site of horse and chariot races at Olympia, Greece. It was 1,153 meters long. It was south of the stadium, but none of it survives. It was washed away by the Alpheios River.

Pyrgos

Pyrgos is a city in Greece. It is the capital of the Ilia prefecture on the Peloponnese peninsula. Pyrgos is in the west of Peloponnese peninsula. It is in the south of Patras and in the north of Kalamata. It has 24,765 people. Near Pyrgos is the ancient town of Olympia. 

Thessaloniki

Thessaloniki is the second-largest city in Greece after Athens. There were 325,182 people at the census of 2011. Including the suburbs, there were 1,110,312 people. It is in the region of Macedonia in northern Greece. It is the capital of the Thessaloniki prefecture and it is the capital of the periphery of central Macedonia. It is the largest city in the geographical region of Macedonia. It has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa" in the Köppen climate classification). The average rainfall is relatively low, due to the rain shadow from the Pindos mountains. Unlike in Athens, there are frequent frosts and snow every winter.

Thessaloniki was established by King Cassander of Macedon, friend of Alexander the Great in the fourth century B.C. He named the city after the sister of Alexander the Great, princess Thessalonike, which in Greek means "victory over Thessaly". 

From late antiquity to the late Middle Ages (330AD-1430AD) it was the second most important city of Byzantine Empire. Then Thessaloniki faced many invasions from enemies such as the Avaroi, Bulgars and others. In the year 1204, the crusaders conquered Thessaloniki and created the Kingdom of Thessalonica. Later it was liberated by Byzantines and then sold to the Republic of Venice but the year 1430, it was conquered by the Ottoman Empire. 

Thessaloniki was a part of Ottoman Empire for approximately 500 years and in 1912 it became part of Greece when Greece acquired Macedonia following the Balkan Wars. Many famous people have lived or were born here, such as the Roman statesman and philosopher Cicero, many saints like Cyril and Methodius, who invented the Cyrillic alphabet, and Saint Demetrius, who is the patron saint of the city, and many politicians, such as the founder of modern-day Turkey, Mustafa Kemal Atatürk. Most of the city was completely destroyed in a large fire in 1917 and was rebuilt in the 1920s. Thessaloniki was place to both the Salonica and Macedonian fronts during World War 1, this fronts were made of French, Serbian, English, Italian, and a Russian division. This fronts were key in 1918 to the Entente victory over both Bulgaria and Austria. It was later occupied by Nazi Germany during the Second World War, during the Greek Invasion.

Thessaloniki has many sights. The most famous sight in Thessaloniki is the white tower. The White tower was a part of Thessaloniki's ancient walls that were built many times through the ages. Thessaloniki was the second-most well-fortified city in the Byzantine Empire, after Constantinople (Istanbul). The walls can still be seen above the city today and despite the many earthquakes, they are still standing. The city was home to a Roman imperial palace and mausoleum. The palace ruins can be seen today but the mausoleum together with a Roman arch can be still seen standing today. Very important sights of Thessaloniki are the medieval churches such as Agios Dimitrios, Agios Georgios and Agia Sofia. Agios Dimitrios it the largest and oldest Basilica in Greece. Thessaloniki's Christian monuments are part of the UNESCO World Heritage initiative. The city also has many Ottoman monuments, such as the Bey Hammam and the old district of the city near the walls, with its distinctly Turkish architecture. Many museums are in the city and some of them are: Archaeological Museum of Thessaloniki, Museum of the Macedonian Struggle, Jewish Museum, Ethnological Museum of Macedonia and others. 

Thessaloniki is known throughout Greece and the countries nearby as a city with a great nightlife even in winter, when most famous Greek tourist destinations are closed. It is also widely considered the Greek city of love due to its many romantic streets and alleys. 

Florina

Florina is a city in Greece in the region of Macedonia. It is the capital of the Florina prefecture. Its population is 15,265 inhabitants. Florina is build at the foot of Varnus mountain. It is built at an altitude of 600 meter approximately. Around Florina there are many forests. 

Argolis

Argolis is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. It is on the Peloponnese peninsula. The capital of Argolis is the Nafplio.

Ilia

Ilia is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. It is on the Peloponnese peninsula. The capital of Ilia is the Pyrgos.

Achaea

Achaea is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. It is on the Peloponnese peninsula. The capital of Achaea is Patras.

Arcadia

Arcadia is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. It is on the Peloponnese peninsula. The capital of Arcadia is Tripoli.

Laconia

Laconia is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. It is on the Peloponnese peninsula. The capital of Laconia is Sparta.

Pella

Pella is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. The capital of Pella is the Edessa and the largest town is Giannitsa. It is also the site of the ancient city of Pella, the capital of the kingdom of Macedon where Alexander the Great and Philip II of Macedon lived.

Attica

Attica is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. Attica contains Athens, the capital of Greece. In ancient period was the area of ancient Athenian state. Attica today is the prefecture with the largest number of people in Greece being the area where Athens, the capital of Greece, is. There are about 3,500,000 people. 

Attica is in the south of Greece. It is a peninsula between Peloponnese and Euboea. Its the southest point is the cape Sounion. Attica has five mountains with an elevation over 1000 meters, Parnitha (the highest of all), Penteli, Hymettus, Pateras mountain and Kithairon. Attica has borders with Boeotia prefecture to the north and Corinthia prefecture to the west. Attica is surrounded by the sea of Saronic gulf to the west and South Euboean golf to the east. These seas are a part of Aegean sea.

Kastoria

Kastoria is a Greek city, and it is one of 51 prefectures of Greece in the region of Macedonia. Kastoria it is built on the bank of Lake Orestiada. There are 17,038 people living in the city. Kastoria has an old neighbourhood which is picturesque, and it is named Doltso. It has nice old houses with particular local architecture.

The name "Kastoria" means "place of the beavers" which used to live in the lake. These have all been hunted and killed for their fur.

Kozani

Kozani is a city in northern Greece. It is the capital of Kozani Prefecture and of the region of Macedonia. The population of the city is 38,591, according to 2001 census. In district of Kozani products the main amount of electrical energy of Greece. 

Magnesia

Magnesia is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. The capital of Magnesia is the Volos.

Messenia

Messinia is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. The capital of Messinia is the Kalamata.

Chalkidiki

Chalkidiki, also known as Halkidiki or Chalcidice, is one of 51 prefectures of Greece in the region of Macedonia. It is the area of the ending of Central Macedonia which accesses deeply in the Aegean Sea forming three small peninsulas. The capital of Chalcidice is the Polygyros.

Official website

Euboea

Euboea is an island of Greece. It is also one of the 51 prefectures of Greece. Euboea is the second largest island of Greece. Its total area is 3,655 km. It is to the east of Boeotia and Attica prefectures. The island is surrounded by the Aegean Sea. The capital of Euboea and the biggest city on the island is Chalkida.

Grevena

Grevena is a Greek city and it is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. Grevena is a small city which is in the west of Macedonia. Its population is 12,037 inhabitants according to 2001 census. It is built at a height of 500 meter approximately. West of Grevena is the mountain range of Pindos with many forests and with a ski center which it is named Vasilitsa. This ski center has a lot of snow throughout the winter. 

Greneva has a total area of 1,860 square kilometers. 

Arta

Arta is a Greek city. It is the capital of Arta Prefecture, one of 51 prefectures of Greece. Its population is 24,725. Arta is known because of Arta's bridge. It is an old bridge on the Arachthos river. 

Trikala

Trikala is a Greek city and it is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. Trikala is in the center of Greece in the Thessaly periphery. According to the 2001 census, 57,914 people lived there. Trikala is built on a large plain. This plain is one of the biggest plain in Greece. In the west of Trikala is the Pindus range. Trikala is crossed by Litheus river.

Lesbos

Lesbos, also called Lesvos, is an island in Greece. It is in the northeastern Aegean Sea. It is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. The capital of Lesbos is the Mytilene. According to Classical Greek mythology, Lesbos was the patron god of the island. 

The word 'lesbian' comes from Lesbos. An ancient poet, Sappho, lived on Lesbos. Many of her love poems are written to women.

Samos

Samos is a Greek island. It is the eighth largest Greek island. It is in the east of Aegean sea. Opposite Samos is the west coasts of Turkey. Samos is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. The prefecture in addition includes the Ikaria island and . The capital of Samos is Samos City, commonly referred to by the locals as Vathi. The area of the island is 478 km squared. It is separated from Asia Minor, by the approximately 1 mile wide Mycale Strait. While largely mountainous, Samos has several relatively large and fertile plains. A great portion of the island is covered with vineyards, from which wine is made. The island of Samos is a lush, very green island with forests and with many places to visit. It is also the birthplace of the mathematician Pythagoras. Today Samos is an island which attracts tourists from all over the world for the wonderful nature, the impressive mountainous and verdant landscape and the plethora of archaeological sites.

The most interest sight of Samos is the ancient aqueduct. It was construct by the ancient Greek mechanic , so it is called "Eupalinio Orygma" in Greek. It is a big tunnel which is long. It had been constructed to carry water in the town of ancient Samos. Other important places is the ancient town which is in the south of island and the contemporary beautiful villages of Samos.

<br>

Evros

Evros is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. The capital of Evros is Alexandroupoli.

Evritania

Evritania is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. The capital of Evritania is the Karpenisi.

Cyclades

Cyclades is an island group in Greece. The group of Cyclades includes many islands. The larger islands of the group is Naxos, Andros, Tinos, Mykonos, Paros, Milos, Thira (or Santorini), Syros, Amorgos, Ios, Kythnos, Kea, Sifnos, Serifos, Sikinos, Folegandros and Anafi. The group, also includes many others small islands and islets. Also Cyclades is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. The capital of Cyclades is the Ermoupolis in the island of Syros.

Serres

Serres is a Greek city. It is also one of 51 prefectures of Greece. There are 56,400 people in Serres. Serres is built on the large plain. It is in the north of Greece, in the region of Macedonia. It is near the Strymonas river.


Kilkis

Kilkis is a Greek town and it is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. It is in the north of Greece, in the region of Macedonia. Kilkis is built on the large plain. It is an agricultural city. It has 19,247 people.

Chania

Chania is a Greek city which is the capital of Chania prefecture. It is in the west of Crete. 55,838 people live there. Chania has an important port which connects Chania with the port of Piraeus. 

Chania had an significant development from 13th century till 17th century. Then it was under Venetian rule. After the Venetians, ruled the Ottomans until 1912. This year Crete was liberated and it is united with Greece.

Xanthi (regional unit)

Xanthi is a Greek city and its one of 51 prefectures in Greece. Its population is 46,464 inhabitants. It is located in the north-east of Greece, in the district of Western Thrace. Many Muslims live in Xanthi. So this city has an oriental color.

Batha (prefecture)

Batha was one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The area is part of the Batha Region since 2002.

Biltine (prefecture)

Biltine was one of fourteen prefectures, or areas, of Chad. The capital of Biltine is Biltine. In 1993, it had a population of 148,807 people and an area of 46,850 square kilometers of land.

As of 2002, the area is now part of Wadi Fira Region

Bourkou-Ennedi-Tibesti

Bourkou-Ennedi-Tibesti was one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital of Bourkou-Ennedi-Tibesti was Faya.

Since 2002, Chad is divided into regions.

Faya-Largeau

Faya-Largeau is the largest city in northern Chad. 9,867 people were living there in 1993. It is the capital of Bourkou-Ennedi-Tibesti Prefecture.

The town was first called Faya, then it was renamed Largeau after Chad became a colony of France in 1900. When Chad won independence from France in 1960, the town changed its name to Faya-Largeau.

Chari-Baguirmi (prefecture)

Chari-Baguirmi was one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital of was Ndjamena. Since 2002, Chad is divided into regions.

Guéra (prefecture)

Guéra was one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital city of Guéra was Mongo. Since 2002, Chad is divided into regions.

Kanem (prefecture)

Kanem () was one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital of Kanem was Mao. Since 2002, Chad is divided into regions.

Lac (prefecture)

Lac is one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital of Lac is the Bol.

Logone Occidental (prefecture)

Logone Occidental was one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital city of Logone Occidental was Moundou. Since 2002, Chad is divided into regions.

Logone Oriental (prefecture)

Logone Oriental was one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital of Logone Oriental was Doba. Since 2002, Chad is divided into regions.

Mayo-Kébbi

Mayo-Kébbi was one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital of Mayo-Kébbi was Bongor. Since 2002, Chad is divided into regions.

Moyen-Chari (prefecture)

Moyen-Chari was one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital of Moyen-Chari was Sarh. Since 2002, Chad is divided into regions.

Ouaddaï (prefecture)

Ouaddaï was one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital of Ouaddaï was Abéché. Since 2002, Chad is divided into regions.

Salamat (prefecture)

Salamat was one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital of Salamat was Am Timan. Since 2002, Chad is divided into regions.

Tandjilé (prefecture)

Tandjilé was one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital of Tandjilé was Laï. Since 2002, Chad is divided into regions.

Abéché

Abéché is a city in Chad. It is the capital city of the Ouaddaï prefecture.

Mongo

Mongo is a city in Chad. It is the capital city of the Guéra prefecture.

Ron Howard

Ronald William Howard (born March 1, 1954) is an American actor, director, producer, and screenwriter.

Ron Howard was born in Duncan, Oklahoma. His father is actor Rance Howard. He started acting as a young child. As an actor he was best known for his roles on television, as Opie Taylor on "The Andy Griffith Show" and Richie Cunningham on "Happy Days". He appeared in movies like "The Music Man" (1962) and "American Graffiti" (1973).

He later quit acting and became a director. Some of the movies he has directed are: "Splash" (1984), "Cocoon" (1985), "Willow" (1988), "Parenthood" (1989), "Apollo 13" (1995), "How the Grinch Stole Christmas" (2000), "A Beautiful Mind" (2001), and "Cinderella Man" (2005).

His father Rance Howard, brother Clint Howard and daughters Bryce Dallas Howard and Paige Howard are also actors, as was his mother, Jean Speegle Howard.

Recently, he returned to television and made the TV show "Arrested Development".

Playboy

Playboy was a monthly American men's magazine. It was founded by Hugh Hefner in Chicago, Illinois in 1953. Marilyn Monroe was the magazine's first cover model. The logo was created by Art Paul.

The magazine featured articles about men's interests including clothing, sports, consumer goods, men's health, politics, and public figures. The magazine always showed large pictures of nude women, except for one year in 2016–2017.

In each issue, a provocatively posed "Playmate of the Month" was featured in a pictorial several pages in length at the center of the magazine with an accompanying "centerfold" photograph. Unlike traditional pin up art, "Playboy" humanized their models by describing their real world jobs, accomplishments, and goals.

In 1963 Hefner was arrested for obscenity in Chicago after publishing nude photos of actress Jayne Mansfield that were taken on the set of "Promises! Promises!" He was acquitted at trial by a hung jury.

Starting with the March 2016 issue, the magazine no longer had pictures of nude women. According to the company, "times change." Times changed again in February 2017 when nudity returned. In March 2020 the company announced that it would stop publishing the magazine on paper and only use digital copies instead. Between 1970 and 1985 "Playboy" was also printed in braille. It is also one of the few magazines whose microfilm format was in color, not black and white.

1817

1817 was a common year.










