Old Testament


In Christianity, the Old Testament is the name of the first part of the Bible which was completed before Jesus Christ was born. Scholars prefer the term Hebrew Bible.

Tertullian was probably the first person to call these books the "Old Testament." He used the Latin name "vetus testamentum" in the 2nd century.

The collection contains different texts, called "books", about God, and the people of Israel. It can be divided into several sections: the Torah, the History of Israel, the Prophets and Wisdom books. In Judaism, this collection of books is known as Tanakh because it is divided into three parts (Torah, Nevi'im and Ketuvim). Most Jews and many Christians believe these texts to be holy. According to them, God inspired people to write them.

Different religious communities include (or leave out) certain books from the Old Testament. The Catholic Church uses Saint Jerome's Latin translation of the Old Testament called Vulgate. The Eastern Orthodox church uses the ancient Greek translation of Jewish sacred writings called the Septuagint. The Eastern Orthodox list of sacred books has a few more books than the Roman Catholic list. Protestant Bibles stick more closely to the books in the Tanakh but list them in a different order.

In the Old Testament, Almighty God is the one who created the world. The God of the Old Testament is not always presented as the only God who exists, even though there may be other gods, the God of the Old Testament is always shown as the only God whom Israel is to worship. The God of the Old Testament is the one "true God"; only Yahweh is Almighty. Both Jews and Christians have always interpreted the Bible (both the "Old" and "New" Testaments) as an affirmation of the oneness of Almighty God.

The Old Testament stresses the special relationship between God and his chosen people, Israel, but includes instructions for proselytes as well. This relationship is expressed in the biblical covenant (contract) between the two, received by Moses. The law codes in books such as Exodus and especially Deuteronomy are the terms of the contract: Israel swears faithfulness to God, and God swears to be Israel's special protector and supporter. "The Jewish Study Bible" denies that covenant means contract.

Other themes in the Old Testament include salvation, redemption, divine judgment, obedience and disobedience, faith and faithfulness. Throughout there is a strong emphasis on ethics and ritual purity. God demands both.

According to the Old Testament, it is important to be fair and to help those who are vulnerable. Those in power should not be biased when they judge people. The Old Testament forbids corruption, deceiving people when trading. It is also against some sexual practices, which are seen as sinful. All morality is traced back to God, who is the source of all goodness.

The problem of evil plays a large part in the Old Testament. The problem the Old Testament authors faced was that a good God must have had just reason for bringing disaster (meaning notably, but not only, the Babylonian exile) upon his people. The theme is played out, with many variations, in books as different as the histories of Kings and Chronicles, the prophets like Ezekiel and Jeremiah, and in the wisdom books like Job and Ecclesiastes.


Painting

Painting is using colors to make visual art. It is also the word for a painted work of art. Many kinds of paints are used to create art. They include watercolors, acrylics and oils. Other artists like working with pencil or chalk. Sometimes charcoal can be used. 

Famous paintings are often kept in art galleries, like the National Gallery in London and the Louvre (Paris) where one of the most famous paintings in the world hangs, the "Mona Lisa", painted by Leonardo da Vinci. People do not have to go to a famous gallery to view art. There are private art galleries in many cities around the world.

There is a basic difference between drawing and painting. In drawing, a single layer is the entire image. In painting, one layer is painted over another to get the final image. As a result, most of the time the image will not be clear until it gets to the final stage.

There are four basic stages in painting: preparation, divide, layer, and touch up.

Horse

Horses are a group of animals of the family "Equidae". They are herbivores, which means they eat grass and other plants. Some plants are dangerous for them, like ragwort, lemongrass (oil grass) and sometimes acorns.

The standard horse is the species Equus caballus. It was domesticated from wild horses by humans at least 5000 years ago. They are large, strong animals and some breeds are used to pull heavy loads. Racehorses can gallop up to 30 miles an hour.

A male horse is a "stallion", and a female horse is a "mare", while the general term for a young horse is "a foal". A young female horse is a "filly", and a young male horse is a "colt". A castrated horse is a "gelding". Horses have "hooves" which need protection by horseshoes from hard or rough ground.

A horse is related to the rhino and tapir in the order Perissodactyla.

The evolution of horses has been well studied. Fifty million years ago, there were no horses as we know them now. Of the earliest fossil horse, the North American one is called "Eohippus", and the Eurasian one is called "Hyracotherium". Both were small animals: "Eohippus" was the larger of the two at twice the size of a terrier dog.

Many changes occurred between those little animals and today's horses. These changes are best explained as adaptations. To its changing ecological niche, from a small forest-dweller eating nuts and fruit to a more significant forest browser eating leaves and small branches. Finally, the modern horse is a grazer on open grassland, with different teeth, legs for running, and a much larger size. Significant changes happened in the mid-Miocene when the climate cooled and grassland replaced forests. This change continued, and several groups of mammals changed from browsers to grazers.

Horses have been domesticated for at least 5000 years. Humans have used them in many different ways for travel, work, food, pleasure and show. Cavalry horses were used in war until the mid-20th century. They are used for riding and transport. They are also used for carrying things, pulling carts, or helping plough farmers' fields in agriculture. People have used selective breeding to make more giant horses do heavy work.

Some people keep horses as pets. Today, horses are mainly used for entertainment and sports. They are also still used for work and transportation in some places. Horses are used in equestrianism, and equine sports such as cross-country, show jumping, and other events. Show jumping, cross-country, and dressage are Olympic sports. "Equus" is the old Latin word for horse.

Horsehide is a rugged leather made from the skin of horses. Horsehair is used to create a stiff fabric. Horsehair can also be used as a stuffing for furniture. Horsehair can be mixed with plaster to make it strong. People can use horse bones to make gelatin for food. People can also use the bones to make glue. Animal glue is still preferred by some woodworkers.

Horses are used all over the world to carry people and pull carts. Big cities use them to help police watch and protect people in crowds.

A mare is a female horse. Other female equines are also sometimes called mares. Before the mare's third birthday, the mare is called a filly. When a mare wants to mate, the mare is called "in heat". This part of the oestrous cycle lasts about three weeks. Mares are more prone to being temperamental. Some people would call this being "mare-ish."

These are some well-known horse breeds among the hundreds that exist:

Afterlife

The afterlife is what some people believe happens after death. Different religions teach different things about the afterlife.

Some religions believe in reincarnation (to come back to life as a different person or even animal). These religions include Buddhism and Hinduism. Hinduism specifically believes that at death the soul leaves the physical body but does not die. It lives in an astral body in an astral plane. Here the soul continues until it is born again in another physical body as a baby. Salvation (called Moksha) in these religions is a release from this endless cycle of re-births.

Most people in the world believe you go to another place after you die, such as heaven or hell. Christianity, Judaism, Islam and Jainism are religions that believe in this. For example, those that follow Christianity believe that if you accept the Christ (Jesus of Nazareth, the son of the Virgin Mary) as your saviour, you will spend eternity in heaven after death; if you do not accept him, you will be separated from him after death.

Many other religions believe in an afterlife of some kind. Ancient Egyptians believed in an `afterlife`. They put things into the graves of important people. These were to be used in the next life. The Vikings had some similar beliefs. Others (like African animists) believe that some people change into spirits called ghosts.

There are also those who do not believe that there is an afterlife, and that you simply cease to exist once you die. Atheists believe there is no God and no afterlife. The Sadducees were a sect of Judaism in the time of Jesus. They believed there was no spirit in man. So, after death there was no more life. .

There are several reports around the world of visions of a supposed afterlife in near death experiences, which, although varying in accounts, typically contain drawing closer to a light, or seeing one's dead relatives. Some people who experience clinical death, but are revived afterwards, report still being able to think and see things even after their vitals flatlined. Several people who have claimed to have visited the afterlife have often claimed to have had new information revaled to them, and are sometimes able to describe events that occurred during their clinical death or provide knowledge of past/future events.


Prayer

Prayer is a worship and communication to God. Prayer can be spoken, silent (no talking), or in a song. It can be used to praise God or to ask for something including help and forgiveness. 

Prayer can take a variety of forms: it can be part of a set ritual or an individual invocation and can take the form of a hymn, a ritual statement, or a spontaneous expression. It can be done alone or in groups. 

In Christianity, prayers are varied. They can be completely spontaneous, or read entirely from a text, like the Anglican Book of Common Prayer. The most common prayer among Christians is the Lord's Prayer, which according to the gospel accounts is how Jesus taught his disciples to pray.

In Islam, salat is observed three or (most commonly) five times every day at prescribed times.

Hinduism has prayer to various divinities or holy beings.

 () is a prayer or request made by Muslims in which they ask for help from their God. Muslims see dua as a very serious way of worship.

Dua has been done by Muslims for a long time, as it is seen as very important by a lot of Muslims and Muslim families. They have been carried on as traditions.

Book of Genesis

Genesis (Greek: ἡ γένεσις "origin, birth") is the first book of the Hebrew Bible. It means creation. It begins with the creation of the Universe. It ends with the death of Joseph. The Hebrew name for the book is transliterated Bre'shiyth, which means "in the beginning".

God created the universe and everything in it in six days. God rested on the seventh day (Sabbath) and declared it a holy day of rest. God gave the Garden of Eden to the first man, Adam, and the first woman, Eve. There was only one thing that they were not allowed to do. God told them not to eat from the tree of knowledge of good and evil. A snake tricked Eve, and she ate the fruit from the tree of knowledge. She then gave Adam some of the fruit, and he ate as well. Because they did not obey him, God made them leave the garden, so all people had to work for their food.

Adam and Eve's first two children were sons, Cain and Abel. Abel was a shepherd and Cain was a farmer. Cain killed his brother Abel out of jealousy, making him the first person to commit murder. (Genesis 4:1–16)

Later, when the world was full of people who were evil, God chose to kill them and save only the animals and the most morally righteous person alive. He told a man, named Noah, to build a huge boat and gather two of every bird, mammal and reptile onto it. He was instructed to take seven animals from every clean species and two animals from every species that wasn’t clean. Noah built and filled the boat as he was told, and a flood covered the whole world. After 40 days and nights, the rains stopped. When the water levels started to get lowr, the boat landed on the mountains of Ararat. God promised never to send another such flood, and he used the rainbow as a sign of that promise.

The people of the world attempted to build a high tower (Tower of Babel) to show the power of mankind and to reach God. God felt insulted and gave people different languages to prevent the tower from ever being finished.

God chose Abram to be "the father of many nations." Abram changed his name to Abraham, and God promised him the land of Canaan (Israel) forever. As a sign of this promise, the sons of Abraham are circumcised. God tested Abraham's loyalty by asking him to kill his son Isaac. Abraham was ready to do it, but God sent an angel to stop him. God told him there would be no more human sacrifice.

God destroyed the evil cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, saving only Abraham's nephew Lot and his daughters.

Isaac and his wife Rebecca had two twin sons, Esau and Jacob. Jacob traded food to Esau for Esau's right to carry the family name. Rebekah helped trick Isaac, who was old and blind, into giving his final blessing to Jacob by dressing him in fur (Isaac felt Jacob's furs and thought he was his hairy twin, Esau). Esau later got a blessing of his own.
Jacob left to find a wife. He found Rachel and worked for her father, Lavan, for seven years to marry her, but was tricked into marrying her sister Leah. He worked for another seven years to marry Rachel. He went back to his home, then moved to Bethel, where God told him to change his name to Israel. Jacob later also marries the servants of Leah and Rachel, whose names are Bilah and Zilpah.

Jacob had twelve sons named Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issaschar, Zebulun, Gad, Dan, Asher, Naftali, Joseph, and Benjamin. His wife Rachel died after she gave birth to Benjamin.

Jacob gave his son Joseph a coat of many colors. Joseph's brothers were jealous, so they sold him into slavery in Egypt. They covered his coat in blood and told their father he had died. Joseph became a great leader in Egypt by predicting a long famine by explaining the pharaoh's dreams. During the famine, his brothers came to Egypt to buy food. They did not know that Joseph was the leader. Joseph first tricked the brothers, but then gave them food and let them stay in Goshen in Egypt.

Jacob blessed his sons and then died.



