Bush


Bush can be more than one thing:

Aerospace engineering

Aerospace engineering is a field of engineering that specializes in vehicles that move in fluids. This usually means working with airplanes, cars, boats, trains, or spacecraft.

As with other engineering, people who work in Aerospace engineering must study. This depends on what they want to do. Aerospace engineers (who design and oversee repair of vehicles) study for years at a university or college and earn a degree. Technicians (those who repair and construct vehicles) will do a shorter course and 'on the job' training. Aerospace jobs include astronauts, pilots, and other professionals.

1805

1805 (MDCCCV) was .


Karnataka

Karnataka is a state in the Republic of India. It has an area of . It is bigger than Syria but smaller than Senegal. In traditional Indian geography, it is part of the Southern zone. It has 31 districts. As of the 2011 census, it has a population of approximately 61.1 million. The present Chief Minister of the state is Siddaramaiah of the Indian National Congress.

Bangalore is the capital city of Karnataka. It is also known as the IT capital of India. Mysore, Mangalore, Hubli-Dharwad, Kalaburgi and Hospet are the other big cities in Karnataka. Places to see in Karnataka are Bangalore, Mysore, Hampi, Bijapur, Belur/Halebid, Shivamogga, sannati (yadgir) and Shravanabelagola. The Lalbhag Botanical Garden, Badami and the Jog water are some of the well-known tourist attractions in Karnataka.

The Kannada language is the official language of the state and the most prominent language spoken by the people in Karnataka. Telugu, Tamil, Marathi, Hindi and Malayalam are also spoken in Karantaka. Kannada is declared as one of the official languages of India. It has won the most number of Gnanpith Awards - 8, which are awarded to writers.

Karnataka is bordered by the Arabian Sea to the west, Goa to the northwest, Maharashtra to the north, Telangana to the northeast, Andhra Pradesh to the east, Tamil Nadu to the south and Kerala to the southwest. Topographically, Karnataka consists of the Arabian Sea Coast, Western Ghats, Deccan Plateau, and Eastern Ghats.

Karnataka's history dates back to the 3rd century BC. The succession of able administrators from the Hoysalas, Chalukyas and the mighty Vijayanagara rulers, to the arrival of the Mughals in the 17th century and the British in the 18th century have contributed to the mix of culture and heritage that is as rich as it is ancient.

Norrland

Norrland is the northernmost region of Sweden. The other two regions are Götaland and Svealand. Norrland includes the Swedish counties Gävleborg County, Västernorrland County, Jämtland County, Västerbotten County and Norrbotten County. By "Upper Norrland" people usually mean Norrbotten and Västerbotten counties.
Historically parts of northern Finland have also been parts of Norrland.

Even though 59% of Sweden's area is within Norrland, only 12% of its population live there. The biggest town of Norrland is Umeå.

Norrland is famous for its landscape, and for phenomena such as the Midnight sun, Polar night and Aurora also called the Northern lights.

Calgary

Calgary is the biggest city in Alberta, Canada. More than 1,000,000 people live in Calgary. The city is in the southern half of Alberta near the Rocky Mountains.

There are many oil and gas businesses in Calgary. There are many skyscrapers in the city.

Around Calgary there are many farms where cows are raised.

Calgary has a humid continental climate ("Dfb" in the Koeppen climate classification). It has long, cold, dry winters. The summers are warm with moderate rainfall. Sometimes a wind called a Chinook blows through Calgary. This wind can make some days in winter less cold.

Calgary has a famous event called The Calgary Stampede every year. They rent many rides and have a huge festival for the city to join. The Calgary Stampede is the largest rodeo in the world. At the Stampede, cowboys can win a lot of money. Cowboys also race with chuckwagons at the Stampede. Chuckwagons are carts with four wheels pulled by horses. In 1988, the Winter Olympics were held in Calgary.

Calgary has many museums, such as the Glenbow Museum and the Aero Space Museum. The Calgary Flames (an NHL ice hockey team) play in Calgary at Scotiabank Saddledome.

Calgary Stations

CKAL Citytv

CFCN CTV Television Network

CICT Global Television Network

CTV Two

Nova Scotia

Nova Scotia ( ); ) is a small province found on the east coast of Canada. The name "Nova Scotia" is Latin for "New Scotland". The capital and largest city is Halifax.

People who live in Nova Scotia are called Nova Scotians. There are over 900,000 of them; over 400,000 of whom live in Halifax.

What is now Nova Scotia used to be controlled by the Mik'maq. The French settled among them at Port Royal after 1600, and called the land part of Acadia, with Port Royal as its capital. In 1710, after a war, the British captured Port Royal and went on to capture the rest of the peninsula. It was the first time that the British had captured and held a French colony. 

On 6 December 1917, about 2,000 people were killed in the Halifax Explosion.

Nova Scotia's government is a democracy. Ian Rankin is the premier and John James Grant is the lieutenant governor.


Calgary (disambiguation)

Calgary might mean any of the following places:


Absolute zero

Absolute zero is the temperature at which the particles of matter (molecules and atoms) are at their lowest energy points. Some might think that at absolute zero particles lose all energy and stop moving. This is not correct. In quantum physics there is something called zero point energy, which means that even after all the energy from particles has been removed, the particles still have some energy. This is due to Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, which states that the more that is known about a particle's position, the less that can be known about its momentum, and vice versa. Therefore, a particle cannot be completely stopped because then its exact position and momentum would be known. 

Some people have created temperatures very close to absolute zero: the record temperature was 100 pK (one hundred picokelvin, equal to 10 kelvin) above absolute zero. Even getting close to absolute zero is difficult because anything that touches an object being cooled near absolute zero would give heat to the objects. Scientists use lasers to slow atoms when cooling objects to very low temperatures.

The kelvin and Rankine temperature scales are defined so that absolute zero is 0 kelvin (K) or 0 degrees Rankine (°R). The Celsius and Fahrenheit scales are defined so that absolute zero is −273.15 °C or −459.67 °F.

At this stage the pressure of the particles is zero. If we plot a graph to it, we can see that the temperature of the particles is zero. The temperature cannot go down any further. Also, the particles cannot move in "reverse" either because as the movement of particles is vibration, vibrating in reverse would be nothing but simply vibrating again. The closer the temperature of an object gets to absolute zero, the less resistive the material is to electricity therefore it will conduct electricity almost perfectly, with no measurable resistance.

The Third Law of Thermodynamics says that nothing can ever have a temperature of absolute zero.

The Second Law of Thermodynamics says that all engines that are powered by heat (like car engines and steam train engines) must release waste heat and can not be 100% efficient. This is because the efficiency (percent of energy the engine uses up that is actually used to do the engine's job) is 100%×(1-T/T), which only is 100% if the outside temperature is absolute zero which it cannot be. So, an engine cannot be 100% efficient, but you can make its efficiency closer to 100% by making the inside temperature hotter and/or the outside temperature colder.


Cylinder

A cylinder is one of the most basic curved three dimensional geometric shapes, with the surface formed by the points at a fixed distance from a given line segment, known as the axis of the cylinder. The shape can be thought of as a circular prism. Both the surface and the solid shape created inside can be called a "cylinder". The surface area and the volume of a cylinder have been known since ancient times.

In differential geometry, a cylinder is defined more broadly as a ruled surface which is spanned by a one-parameter family of parallel lines. A cylinder whose cross section is an ellipse, parabola, or hyperbola is called an elliptic cylinder, parabolic cylinder, or hyperbolic cylinder respectively.

In common use a "cylinder" is taken to mean a finite section of a right circular cylinder, i.e., the cylinder with the generating lines perpendicular to the bases, with its ends closed to form two circular surfaces, as in the figure (right). If the cylinder has a radius formula_1 and length (height) "h", then its volume is given by:

and its surface area is:

Therefore, without the top or bottom (lateral area), the surface area is:

With the top and bottom, the surface area is:

For a given volume, the cylinder with the smallest surface area has formula_8. For a given surface area, the cylinder with the largest volume has formula_8, i.e. the cylinder fits in a cube (height = diameter).

Having a right circular cylinder with a height formula_10 units and a base of radius formula_1 units with the coordinate axes chosen so that the origin is at the center of one base and the height is measured along the positive x-axis. A plane section at a distance of formula_12 units from the origin has an area of formula_13 square units where

or

An element of volume, is a right cylinder of base area formula_16 square units and a thickness of formula_17 units. Thus if "V" cubic units is the volume of the right circular cylinder, by Riemann sums,

Using cylindrical coordinates, the volume can be calculated by integration over

Cylindric sections are the intersections of cylinders with planes. For a right circular cylinder, there are four possibilities. A plane tangent to the cylinder, meets the cylinder in a single straight line. Moved while parallel to itself, the plane either does not intersect the cylinder or intersects it in two parallel lines. All other planes intersect the cylinder in an ellipse or, when they are perpendicular to the axis of the cylinder, in a circle.

An elliptic cylinder, or cylindroid, is a quadric surface, with the following equation in Cartesian coordinates:

This equation is for an elliptic cylinder, a generalization of the ordinary, circular cylinder (formula_25). Even more general is the generalized cylinder: the cross-section can be any curve.

The cylinder is a "degenerate quadric" because at least one of the coordinates (in this case formula_26) does not appear in the equation.

An oblique cylinder has the top and bottom surfaces displaced from one another.

There are other more unusual types of cylinders. These are the "imaginary elliptic cylinders":

the "hyperbolic cylinder":

and the "parabolic cylinder":


Vacuum

A vacuum is a place where there is no matter, not even air. Sound cannot move in a vacuum. No place has a perfect vacuum, because a small number of particles remain, even in outer space. 

A space where only some of the air is removed is also called a vacuum. The space then has lower pressure, even though most of the air remains. 


Vacuum is needed for some kinds of machines used for industrial production. Vacuum pumps are used to pump air out of a vacuum chamber. It is not possible to create 100% vacuum, but some vacuum pumps are able to create 99.9999% vacuum. This is called "hard vacuum". Most industrial purposes do not need hard vacuum. 

Industrial vacuums are mainly used in:

Vacuum chambers are also used in many scientific experiments in laboratories. Some experiments in physics and chemistry need hard vacuum to keep any air or other gases from interfering with delicate surfaces or chemicals that can react.



